Johannesburg – The memories of two late and selfless women councillors will continue to live as two of the City of Joburg’s important landmarks have been renamed after them and continue to tell their stories. This follows after the recent motions were passed in council, to rename the new council chambers after the late speaker of council, Connie Bapela and rename the Caroline Street Retirement Village after the late councillor Suzanne Clarke. The current speaker of council, Nonceba Molwele, earlier this month hosted a virtual engagement under the topic “honouring the legacy of former great women leaders of the Joburg city council”. The discussion was to pay tribute to the late councillors who have been hailed as heroines for having dedicated their lives to serving others. It was also an opportunity to reflect on the immense contributions they have made in the city. Molwele said the transparency of the council chambers in its design represents openness and accountability, some of the attributes which described Bapela. “Mama Connie was very passionate about public participation, and the new chambers is indeed open to the public, which is a reminder of who sis Connie was. She was a hard-worker, a graceful, beautiful and authentic African leader who was indeed orderly, transparent and committed to the transformation of the people of Joburg and a beacon of hope to many especially women,” said Molwele. The Gauteng legislature chair of chairs, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, said: “Never once in my lifetime, did I ever imagine talking about Connie as the late. She was the epitome of a true servant of the people.” Councillors equally hailed the late Clarke as a heroine who fought until the end in her long battle with cancer in 2019. Clarke, they said, was a truly remarkable person who dedicated her life to uplifting and assisting everyone who sought her help. Community development member of the mayoral committee of community development Margaret Arnolds described the late Clarke as someone who lived her life to serve others whenever she got the opportunity. “She believed that the youth must be motivated to be in high positions. She drew her inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy of ’Be the change you wish to see in the world'. She wanted to make a change in the world. “It was an honour for me to have made the motion to rename Caroline Street Retirement unit after the late Clarke. One thing that stood out for me when I first met the late councillor was that she could speak nine South African languages and Portuguese fluently. She could converse with everyone in the community and respond in their language,” she said. The Star