Johannesburg - An Ekurhuleni baby boy has benefited from from a cleft lip repair procedure, thanks to the Netcare Foundation. Eleven-month-old Hanru van der Merwe of Brakpan has undergone the first of a series of procedures he will require to correct the condition though the foundation. Hanru’s father, Ruan van der Merwe, says he and his wife, Angelique are absolutely delighted that their firstborn, Hanru, was recently able to have the procedure, which will not only transform the little boy’s face once all the procedures have been completed, but will substantially improve his quality of life. “He is such a precious and vibrant little boy and his cleft lip and palate not only impacted his feeding and speech, but also resulted in healthcare issues such as recurrent ear infections, which could potentially result in hearing loss. We are most grateful to the Netcare Foundation, his surgeon, Professor Tim Christofides, Netcare Sunninghill Hospital and all of those who have assisted to make it possible,” he says. Van der Merwe says he and his wife are currently unemployed and were so desperate to find urgent help for their son, that they started a Facebook group called “Help for Hanru”. “Hanru was on a waiting list for a procedure but Alet Cloete from Netcare saw the Facebook page and brought his plight to the attention of the hospital general manager, Pieter Louw who assisted with the procedure.” The Netcare Foundation, which facilitates access to sustainable, corporate, social health-care initiatives to assist economically disadvantaged patients around South Africa, completed the surgery on October 16. Professor Christofides says the operation went very well and Hanru is recovering at home. “Unfortunately, a cleft lip and palate such as Hanru’s can have a negative impact on a child’s development. It is therefore best to operate while they are still relatively young, and it should certainly not be left so long as to affect a child’s confidence. In addition, a cleft lip and palate can greatly impede speech and even the feeding of a baby, because those with a cleft lip and palate often struggle to swallow milk,” he says. It is not just the surgery that is required but also the support provided after the procedures, including speech therapy. He said: “A great many South African parents do not realise that the quality of life of children born with cleft lip and palate can be drastically improved as help is available, and that there is always a way to get assistance for your child.” The Star