By Bonginkosi Ntiwane Johannesburg - The South African Hip Hop Museum in Joburg has suffered a big setback after it was vandalised during an apparent break-in. The estimated R2.5 million damage was only discovered on Monday. It is suspected that criminals broke into its premises in Newton over the weekend, but were interrupted by a water pipe they damaged during the robbery. The museum’s founder, Osmic Menoe, is reeling over the damages, which have thrown a spanner into his plans for the iconic building. “We don’t know exactly when the break-in took place. It could have been on Friday, Saturday or Sunday. But obviously, by the looks of how much water flooded from the fourth floor to the ground floor, it was probably a long period of time that the water was running,” said Menoe. It is understood that the break-in took place on the fourth floor of Museum Africa, and damage was caused to one of the pipes. “As a result, when that happened, the thugs probably ran away. That water, after flooding from the fourth floor, obviously gave access to the third floor where the Hip Hop Museum is.” The Hennessy Wall of Fame, a section of the museum that was launched last December and which pays homage to pioneers in South African hip hop, was severely damaged too. “It was very fancy. We had goldplated Hennessy bottles, plasma TVs, wooden floors and all different furniture. We were currently busy building a recording studio and also busy with the third phase, which was called Milestones in the South African Hip Hop story. “All that water got into all those screens and plaques, obviously damaging everything. Another thing is that the water could have been going there for a whole day, or two days, we don’t know,” he said. Menoe confirmed that Museum Africa has opened a criminal case, but had not received the case number. Menoe created the museum three years ago using his own funds. “We were just about to announce our partnership on the recording studio with Castle Lite. The recording studio, Milestones section and the history section were due to be opened to the public next April. All the material to make those sections ended up under water. Wallpaper that was printed and some of the electronics were damaged, and some of the pine wood and super boards we were using were damaged too.” Menoe has used his Instagram account to show the extent of the damage and also tagged Minister of Sport, Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, and Joburg mayor Geoff Makhubo in the hope that the government would help him. Menoe is a custodian of South African hip hop. He is the founder of the Back to The City Hip Hop festival and is also the founder of the South African Hip Hop awards. This break-in came when he was putting together the awards, yet he remained optimistic. “Everyone will tell you how obsessed I am about this space. All my little savings have been going there. I can’t remember when I last bought myself a shirt. I just told myself I don’t know why I’m so possessed in doing this thing, but I just have to do it. Obviously, it does hamper one’s soul, but I’m one of those people when something bad happens, I tend to see the positive in it.” The Star