Johannesburg - Joburg residents over the age of 60 are being asked to volunteer for a Covid-19 investigational vaccine clinical trial at the Clinical HIV Research Unit’s (CHRU) Helen Joseph Hospital clinical research site. This is a testing site for the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson’s Phase 3 clinical research study, the Ensembe trial, to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the investigational vaccine candidate. Right to Care’s Esizayo Clinic in Cosmo City is a recruitment site for the trial. The phase 3 randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a single vaccine dose of the Janssen investigational Covid19 vaccine candidate versus placebo, in nearly 60 000 adults 18 years and older, including significant representation from those that are over 60. Participants will be randomly selected for either the vaccine or the placebo (an injection that contains an inactive substance). The trial will include both those with and without comorbidities associated with an increased risk for progression to severe Covid-19. CHRU and Right to Care are enrolling up to 500 adults over the age of 40 from Joburg with access to Helen Joseph Hospital and those living in and around Cosmo City. Principal investigator of the trial at CHRU, Dr Sharlaa Badal-Faesen, said: “People over 60 have accounted for 54% of Covid-19 deaths in South Africa and a significant proportion of cases. Therefore, to protect older citizens, we need them to help find a vaccine. “We are encouraging people over 60, with or without co-morbidities, to participate. These may include hypertension (high blood pressure), diabetes, heart disease or HIV.” Janssen has pledged to adhere to its high scientific, ethical and regulatory standards and to rely on robust clinical evidence to guide the development of its vaccine candidate. To find out more, email info@chru. co.za or call 072 416 5735 or go to https://za.ensemblestudy.com/ The Star