Johannesburg - The family of a deceased 17-year-old girl believe their daughter would still be alive had the medical team at Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital given her immediate appendix surgery. The teenager had sent a heart emoji to her family from her hospital bed four hours before her family received a call from the hospital informing them of her passing. The parents of Tshiamo Pearl Moeketsi have lodged a formal complaint with the hospital in Ga-Rankuwa, Tshwane, after their daughter died following two allegedly delayed surgeries for a ruptured appendix. “I am asking myself what actually happened. We were told she had cancer in the stomach or that she had gastro but the main thing was that last thing that was dealt with,” Tshiamo’s father, Simelane Moeketsi, told The Star this week. The teenager had complained to her parents about severe stomach pain before she was transferred to the hospital on October 4 and the parents signed a consent form for a CT scan. A senior specialist confirmed to the family on October 6 that Tshiamo’s appendix ruptured and recommended an urgent surgery procedure to drain the appendix fluid. The family was further informed that if the medical team were unable to drain the fluid, then major surgery needed to be performed. Gauteng Department of Health spokesperson Kwara Kekana confirmed that Tshiamo was admitted into the hospital’s surgical ward 4 on October 6. “My daughter then sat in casualty for two days and communication between us and the doctors at hand was very poor. It was very bad, hence the reason we believe there is a case of negligence because my child was neglected too much,” the father said. The family said Tshiamo was eventually sent to surgery on the evening of October 9 where the teenager was drained of the fluid. “We did not get post-operation information. We had to fight to get information on how the operation went but instead of getting answers, we had more questions,” Moeketsi said. Following Tshiamo’s surgery, the family said they did not feel that the teenager’s recovery was satisfactory, however they were reassured that she was recovering well but the teenager’s condition deteriorated. On October 16, Tshiamo’s parents were called into the hospital to sign another consent form for a CT scan to determine the extent of infection caused by the appendix rupture. The family were further told that Tshiamo needed the major surgery the specialist mentioned the following day before she was admitted to ICU. On October 18, while still in ICU, Tshiamo complained to her parents on the phone that she could not breathe and that she was not feeling well. The parents said they advised her to shout for a nurse. However, the teenager could not raise her voice because she had a nasogastric tube inserted in her nose. A nasogastric tube is a flexible tube that is passed through the nose down through the oesophagus and into the stomach. The family said they called the ward twice to ask a nurse to attend to their child. The following day, the family woke up to a WhatsApp message from Tshiamo saying good morning with a heart emoji at around 5am. At 8.45am, the hospital called the parents to tell them that their daughter had died. “From all the days when we arrived at George Mukhari until her last day, she was never considered as someone whose condition needed urgency,” Moeketsi said. Following Tshiamo’s burial on October 23, the parents returned to the hospital for answers. The family said they believed that the tube was the cause of their daughter’s death because she complained about not being able to breathe after it was inserted. “The hospital cannot disclose the details of the patient’s diagnosis and/ or treatment to the third party without signed consent from a patient or his/her guardian/family,” said the department spokesperson. The family added that after lodging a formal complaint, they had attended meetings with the hospital’s grievance management team but still haven’t been provided with answers. “Medical negligence in the treatment of any patient is determined by the courts or a similar process,” Kekana said. Moeketsi said the family could only start their healing process once they knew the full story of what happened to Tshiamo. The Star