Johannesburg - Many artists are getting into the spirit of the festive season, releasing songs in time for the end-of-year extravaganza. Naima Kay is one such artist who has recently released her single Imimoya. “I was thinking about a lot of things during this lockdown and all the things that were happening. “I thought to myself to write about them – from the pandemic, to GBV. I grew up on the bible and God did say that blessings would come to the fore and false prophets would come. All the things happening now, God is not happy with us at all. That is what this song is talking about and asking for forgiveness.” The biggest lesson she has learnt this year has been learning how to save money. “A lot of our job is to go out and work in public with people and we couldn’t do that this year. “Nothing was coming in financially but the pandemic has taught us to save and learn how to use money better. We are used to going to gigs and spending money on a weekly basis, relying on the next gig for a boost.” The singer is preparing for the release of her fourth album but has had to take time with it. For now, she has released singles Soka Lami and Sondela Baby. “We are releasing the singles for now and next year we will look to work on the full album coming out in March. I love having music with a message … there must be some difference it makes in your life.” Naima Kay added that people loved to wake up to her music and she has now changed up her sound. “I want to open myself up to a new audience outside of the jazz community and it has been well received. Tribal House is the new sound I am now incorporating into the music.” The 29-year-old was one of many artists who protested on the N3 highway route in Durban against the lockdown regulations. She was also among 32 performing artists who were arrested. “I was shot at with a rubber bullet as well but I don’t regret it at all. In the end, what we protested for is slowly starting to happen again. We are grateful for the artists here in Joburg for their support and coming to court.” The Star