Johannesburg - Researchers at Stellenbosch University have had a breakthrough on shortening the treatment regime for children with minimal tuberculosis (TB). The SHINE trial involved 1 204 children from Uganda, Zambia, India and South Africa, including 315 children in Cape Town at the Desmond Tutu TB Centre (DTTC). The trial compared a shortened four-month treatment regimen with the standard six-month regimen, using the same medications, and showed that 93% of children with minimal TB were successfully treated, with no difference in outcome between the regimens. Around 1.1 million children develop TB every year and about 205 000 die from it. Children and adolescents account for around 25% of TB cases in Africa. “The SHINE trial is the first tuberculosis treatment-shortening randomised-controlled clinical trial in children. It’s a milestone. “We’ve suspected for a long time that we are over-treating many children with TB, but now have clear, pragmatic evidence to inform policy and clinical practice,” Professor Anneke Hesseling of the DTTC in the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences at the university said. Hesseling said “minimal TB” is TB that is not that severe. “It’s typically pulmonary TB with minimal changes in the lungs, no cavities, complications or dissemination of the TB bacilli. It also applies to mild TB outside the lung – typically lymph node disease. We used chest X-rays to look for standard patterns or features which we classify as not severe, and which doctors on site used to randomise children.” Up to 50% to 60% of children with TB globally, as well as in South Africa, may have minimal TB. He said currently, children with TB are treated the same way as adults by placing them on six-months regimen of antibiotics. “Most adults have more infectious TB than children do. Children usually have lower bacterial levels, which have now been proven to respond equally well to shorter treatment. It’s difficult to get a child to take antibiotics daily for six months. Reducing this by two months relieves the burden on families, caregivers and health services.” The Star