By Flora Teckie As we marked National Children’s Day on Saturday, it is timely to view the progress made towards protecting the rights of our children and promoting their well-being and welfare. “Future generations will be better able to govern the affairs of humankind and guarantee that the rights of all are respected if the rights of today’s children are protected and their full development assured,” says the Bahá’í International Community. This is achievable through a balanced education which is the development of their talents, mental and physical abilities and spiritual qualities. However, according to the UN Children’s Fund, even before the pandemic, millions of children globally had been denied their right to education. The situation is now much more grave, as “up to 1.6 billion children and young people have been affected by school closures – many do not have internet access at home” to attend online schools. Education is a basic human right as it is crucial to the development of our children’s potential. Education is also a necessity for children if they are to enjoy other human rights. It is not enough to focus only on enrolling children in schools. There is a need to generate in children a vision of the kind of society they wish to live in – a peaceful society, one in which empowerment and development for all members of the human family is ensured. Once they have such a vision, we can help them shape their future and to be the kind of individuals that will bring about such a society. According to the Universal House of Justice, the governing council of the Bahá’í international community: “The cause of universal education… deserves the utmost support that the governments of the world can lend it. For ignorance is indisputably the principal reason for the decline and fall of peoples and the perpetuation of prejudice. No nation can achieve success unless education is accorded all its citizens”, and that “In keeping with the requirements of the times, consideration should also be given to teaching the concept of world citizenship as part of the standard education of every child”. Our children must appreciate the role of unity in diversity as the basis for social integration. The concept of world citizenship and love for humanity can be integrated into our educational programmes. The programmes should encourage unity in diversity – achievable through the acceptance of the oneness of humanity. “The heart and essential foundation of all education is spiritual and moral training”, state the Bahá’í writings and confirm “knowledge is praiseworthy when it is coupled with ethical conduct and virtuous character”. To transform attitudes and values through spiritual education also implies instilling respect for the rights of others and a desire to uphold and defend the rights. This entails empowering them to become collaborators in the development of their community, and taking an active role in their own development. A loving, caring and supportive environment is necessary for the full and harmonious development of our children’s personalities. Providing our children with moral and spiritual education, in addition to intellectual education – as well as education for international understanding and peace – are essential for creating a world where our children and our communities would enjoy the benefits of justice, unity and peace. The Star