By Gavin Kelly Again, the road freight companies (truckers) find themselves being attacked by forces under the pretext of foreign nationals “taking jobs away from citizens”. This results in damaged and destroyed lives, companies, employment opportunities, economic activity, goods, vehicles, facilities, roads and foreign investment to move goods through South Africa into Africa. Mr President, this is not what we all envisaged as economic recovery. We are concerned that the lack of action from the government creates the impression that it is complacent regarding this protest action – given that the minister of police has done nothing of substantive value to either prevent or stop this. Everything has been reactive. The latest call for a plan to address this through a co-ordinated national approach, is scheduled for discussion after the recently announced period of further action as communicated by the All Truck Drivers’ Foundation (ATDA). We need to protect every citizen’s constitutional right to safety, security and the ability to live and work without hindrance, subject to them respecting and abiding by the Constitution and the legislative requirements. This matter has been with us for more than three years and nothing, other than the shifting of blame and endless talks, has transpired. The association has, together with the National Bargaining Council for the Road Freight and Logistics Industry (NBCRFLI), which includes labour unions, met on numerous occasions with relevant ministers, been involved in the ministerial task teams, forwarded proposals and attempted to resolve all matters through the structures created by the NBCRFLI. However, there are roles required by government agencies that have not been implemented. The council has a meeting with the ATDF on Tuesday. However, the ATDF, together with other groupings, has shown their hand in pressing on with destabilisation tactics with the announcement of further action from Monday until today. We have seen citizens attacked, injured and killed in this activity “aimed at foreign drivers”. Clearly, this is not about foreign drivers. The increase in lawlessness, common criminality, looting, arson, pillaging, intimidation, blackmail and other clever schemes has been orchestrated against individuals, businesses, organised labour, the economy and the fabric of the freedom to economic activity. The country cannot allow this state of lawlessness to continue. The attacks are being carried out with military precision, indicating that there is a strong co-ordinated leadership element with formal military training. We are not clear on what the objective is – but the destabilisation of the country seems to be large part of this. This is sabotage, this is outright war on the economy and its citizens. We need to stop this now and arrest and arrest the perpetrators. This will escalate into widespread confrontation as frustrated, angry and financially-stressed citizens taking steps to protect their employees, assets, property and the sustainability of their businesses. Mr President, we respectfully require your urgent intervention, through your call to all stakeholders to partner in finding a solution. Gavin Kelly is the CEO of the Road Freight Association. The Star