Johannesburg - Juni Aurora Haven, a home for abused and neglected children, has turned to crowdfunding to raise money for a life-saving surgery for 4-year-old Naledi Thahanyane. Described as a little Earth angel, Naledi was put in the care of the home in Sandton when she was 6 months old. Melody Eggar, a volunteer at the home, said that when Naledi arrived at the home she was tiny and underdeveloped. “With healthy food, love and encouragement, we have seen her blossom into the princess she is today. She is such a vibrant, inquisitive, busy and loving child. She steals the hearts of everyone who meets her,” Eggar said. About three years ago, the little girl was taken to a paediatrician for a regular check-up, and it was discovered that she has a heart defect. There is a growth just below her left aorta. The home’s director, Chaya Fenwick, said Naledi also had a hole in her heart. “But the growth is the concern but they will rectify the hole in her heart during the surgery at the same time,” she said. Following her diagnosis, the child made regular visits to the Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital’s cardiology team to decide when her surgery should take place as she could only be safely operated on when the growth increased in size. In May, upon seeing a slight trickle of blood mixing, Naledi’s doctor gave the go-ahead for her to have surgery within the next six months. Her surgery is scheduled to take place within two months. Fenwick said the home had launched a crowdfunding campaign on BackaBuddy, in hopes to raise the much-needed funds to save her life. “Over the past few weeks, Naledi has been tiring more easily and sleeping more than usual. We know that without this operation, she won’t be with us for her next birthday, and that’s too difficult to contemplate,” Eggar said. The home added that although the full cost of the surgery and recovery still needed to be confirmed, the campaign was aiming to raise about R100 000 to cover the costs of the operation, medication, medical supplies, sterilisation equipment as well as a home nurse. The crowdfunding was launched a week ago and by Tuesday it had raised about R16 930.93. Call Juno Aurora Haven at 082 480 6935. @Chulu_M The Star