By Neeshan Balton We, as the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, are happy that action taken by law enforcement agencies in recent months is tackling alleged corruption. It gives one a sense of hope that investigations are finally yielding results, with big cases being prosecution. We refer to Tuesday’s warrant of arrest for ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule, in relation to the asbestos housing audit case. There have also been developments in recent months in the VBS and Bosasa cases. The consistent work of the Zondo Commission must be commended. It is essential to reiterate the importance of the amendment to the commission’s rules, which allow it to work with the National Prosecuting Authority. The warrants of arrest, the court appearances and the summonses before the Zondo Commission send a strong message that allegations of corruption cannot simply be swept under the carpet. Taking a tough stance and investigating allegations of corruption is not about playing politics. If a party’s secretary-general – or any other politician, public servant, business person or professional is arrested and they are innocent, then they should not be worried about standing before a court of law. Tackling corruption is about justice and redress. It is about ensuring that the money meant for housing, personal protective equipment, decent school toilets and electricity isn’t stolen, and, if it is, the thieves are swiftly arrested. It is fresh in our minds how money meant for emerging farmers in Vrede allegedly ended up paying for a massive wedding at Sun City. The Asset Forfeiture Unit recently seized a Porsche and other luxury vehicles in relation to the Free State asbestos auditing case. This should be juxtaposed against the dangerous reality faced by poor people living in asbestos homes. Corruption is corruption – it is not economic transformation as some try to make it out to be. The work being conducted by law enforcement is complemented by civil society action. Organisations involved in the Orange Mask Campaign – focused on Covid-19 and other corruption – have been demonstrating weekly, hosting information sharing sessions and developing new policy ideas. There is growing momentum leading up to December 9, marked as International Anti-Corruption Day, where we will amplify the call for looters to don orange overalls. We cautioned that while we are optimistic about action being taken against corruption, we have merely scratched the surface. Corrupt networks remain entrenched, our procurement policies are not foolproof and political party funding remains murky. The Covid-19 period taught us the lesson we did not learn well enough following years of state capture: unless we have proper transparency, oversight and accountability, our public money will be not safe from the thieves. Neeshan Balton is the Executive Director of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. The Star