Johannesburg: Day two of the Restart Expo showed the resilience of the exhibition and events industry's plight to get its grievances heard by the government. In attendance was the Department of Tourism’s acting deputy director-general (DDG) Maditonki Setwaba following a cancellation by the minister. Setwaba commended the expo for its successful organising and demonstration of the state of readiness of the events industry to fully operate. "We really appreciate the industry's effort to showcase that they are able to comply at the same time allow for safe opening of the tourism sector particularly in the exhibitions and events,  it's a giant step," said Setwaba. Day two allowed for members of the industry and various attendees to pose questions to the DDG for clarity on whether the department will increase the number of people at events. Exhibitors felt they were better classified as mass gatherings, with many believing that they should be allowed to accommodate more than the 250 maximum people indoors and 500 maximum people outdoors as their venues, such as the Johannesburg Expo Centre, can host thousands. Group chief executive of GL Events and director of the Restart Expo Craig Newman argued that all stakeholders cannot from a financial point of view put exhibitions and events together with numbers of 250 and 500 as it becomes financially unviable. Newman said: "Our industry is professional enough, its experienced enough and has been here long enough and have continuously continued to operate under strict conditions such as crowd control and crowd management ensuring that we put together safe events. Adding the little bit that we need to with regards to Covid regulations we can do this in a controlled and managed environment and put together successful events with numbers that are suitable." Speaking to The Star, Setwaba said the issue of numbers is very critical and is one of the points she will take back to the department for evaluation. The expo will await to hear any information regarding their demonstrations and only hope that the government will consider the restrictions. Newman said: “From here, we will produce a professional document that will go as a voice from the industry to the minister to say having put on the benchmark event  and having had all industry stakeholders involved.  Here is our document to present to the cabinet with the request that businesses are dying and we need our industry opened.“  | The Star