Johannesburg - Following an investigation into the Trade, Industry and Competition Department, The Star has now learnt of Minister Ebrahim Patel allegedly meddling in the process of appointing a new chairperson for the National Lottery Commission (NLC) board. According to a source within the department, Patel violated processes by orchestrating for former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas to be appointed as board chair even though Jonas had not formally applied for the position. Things are said to be very tense between Patel, the board and NLC management, with Patel moving to have NLC chief executive Philemon Letwaba and two other members of the executive management fired. The bone of contention is said to be the funding of black non-government organisations. The whistle-blower has revealed screenshots of a WhatsApp conversation between someone said to be Patel and a senior manager at the NLC discussing the ousting of Letwaba. In the conversation, the manager tells the individual believed to be the minister about the discussions at the NLC management meetings. Last month, Parliament attempted to begin the process of interviewing candidates for the position of chairperson but interviews were aborted after ANC MP Simanaga Mbuyane opposed the interviews, saying they were originally supposed to be done in private. Committee members then agreed to halt the public interviews, with the plan to collectively design questions so that “some candidates” would not have an unfair advantage. The board is currently chaired by Professor Alfred Nevhutanda, whose term ends this month. EFF MP Thembi Msane also slammed the interviews, demanding transparency of how many candidates had applied and the names of the people who led the short-listing. Msane also demanded to know why the period of application was so short. Patel’s spokesperson, Sidwell Medupe, first laughed off questions about the minister “personally recruiting” Jonas for the job of chairperson and working to oust Letwaba. “I was in church. I just thought I should return your call. I’m laughing because I don’t know what to say. Please give me more time to answer,” Medupe said. Both Patel and Medupe have since responded to questions. Letwaba said he was shocked by the whistle-blower’s statement. “It’s a surprise to me. I still don’t understand why anyone would want to oust me. The exco and myself have worked very hard for this organisation. Our work speaks for itself, that’s why I say I’m shocked. I hope it’s not true.” Letwaba said. The Star