By Colonel Athlenda Mathe A new, integrated plan to combat crime and create safer cities has been launched by the South African Police Service (SAPS). The integrated approach forms part of the national crime prevention strategy to include local and metropolitan municipality safety departments, registered private security companies and community safety structures, led by community policing forums. The “integrated, safer cities” concept is a first of its kind to be implemented anywhere in South Africa. The national safer city concept is also being piloted in other cities which aims to see law enforcement agencies integrating and maximising technology to fight crime more effectively. This new, “fusion centre” is the first of its kind in the country. Its purpose is to maintain and establish a platform for information sharing through a collaborative approach among stakeholders through evidence-led information. “It also aims at providing an improved response to co-ordinated planning to deal with any eventuality. Using state-of-the-art technology, the fusion centre will integrate participants from various disciplines, systems and software, coupled with extensive research and development. Deputy Police Minister Cassel Mathale officiated at the launch of this groundbreaking programme.in Inanda, Durban. This plan not only focuses on the inner cities and suburbs but also townships and rural communities through the rural safety strategy, the traditional crime prevention programme and the introduction of community-based mounted police – the Royal Reserve Police Service. “A safe city is where a young woman can walk alone at night, without fear of being harassed, violated or harmed in any way. “This is the goal that this administration is working tirelessly towards achieving alongside our efforts to decrease violent crimes at least by half in the next decade,” said Mathale. The safer city initiative has been prioritised as one of the critical government interventions that will contribute extensively towards the economic growth of the country. It is one of the post-Covid-19 crime prevention approaches which aim at creating crime-free cities or districts and, at large, a country free of crime and violence. “The local government sphere is a pinnacle where development and innovation take place. For our new plans to function, all responsible government departments need to actively participate in its operations by providing and distributing resources,” said SAPS National Commissioner General Khehla Sitole. “The provision of safety and security in cities is one of the catalysts for their survival,” . MEC of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison in KZN, Bheki Ntuli said the success of this centre lies with the stakeholders involved. “Every official has a stake in the development and exchange of information and intelligence and should act as an ambassador to support and further this initiative.”Fusion centres bring all the relevant partners together to maximise the ability to prevent and respond to criminal acts. By embracing this concept, these entities will be able to effectively and efficiently,” he said. Colonel Athlenda Mathe is the SAPS spokesperson. The Star