Johannesburg - A paralysed man is making a difference to the lives of people living with disabilities by offering them a chance to get behind the wheel. Thami Mankenkeza, who was shot in 2007 while driving with a friend, is the co-founder of Wheels of Change, an organisation that provides a driving school for people with disabilities that also offers adaptations to enable them to drive with their hands. He is based in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni. “I got shot on my upper-body near my left nipple but the bullet ricocheted and took a tour around the body, missed my heart and lodged in the spinal cord, causing my paralysis. “Ten years after this incident I decided to regain my independence and help others in similar circumstances by starting the driving school,” said Mankenkeza. He said it was difficult for him to adapt after his shooting, in particular having to depend on others to do basic things. “I initially had a car and I decided I’m going to start driving again. I got my car modified to enable me to drive. I approached a guy who helped make the adaptations to assist me to drive,” added Mankenkeza. He also teaches his clients how to get themselves successfully into the car and how to load their wheelchairs on to their vehicles. He has helped people as far afield as KwaZulu-Natal. Connie Hlophe, a paraplegic from KwaThema who has used Mankenkeza’s services, said that she has gained confidence to get behind the wheel. “As a working paraplegic female I needed independence to get from one point to another. I stay in KwaThema and Wheels of Change is in Vosloorus. He came to my neighbourhood for lessons with a reasonable price. He taught me the controls, jumping into the car, disconnecting my chair and putting it into the car. The confidence in driving I got from him has become very helpful,” said Hlophe. Mankenkeza, who started his company in 2017, offers different services which includes skills development and work-readiness programmes. “Our aim is to equip people with disabilities the skills to better their lives as many rely on government grants,” he said. Mankenkeza urged employers to consider people with disabilities for employment or projects, which could assist them to better their lives. The Star