Johannesburg - Sabotage by disgruntled City Power sub-contractors whose contracts were not renewed on November 1 and the incompetence of the City of Joburg have been blamed for both the numerous power and water outages from Sunday and which still continue. The DA says City Power has spent the 18 months messing up the appointment of contractors who are responsible for supporting the teams who fix faults and restore power. A total of 3 730 calls were logged for power cuts alone over two days. The water outages in the south and west of the city were reportedly due to an electrical switch powering the Orlando substation, which supplies the Rand Water Eikenhof pump station. On Sunday, the DA warned that the city would be “plunged in darkness” because City Power had not renewed the contracts of sub-contactors who assist the city with outages. The same day, half of the city from Florida to Berea, experienced long outages. A source, known to Metrowatch, who did not want to be identified, said this was the work of unhappy subcontractors who wanted to prove the city could not operate without their assistance. “It is not coincidental that half the city’s power went out on the same day,” he said. However, member of the mayoral committee for environment and infrastructure services, Mpho Moerane, hours before the outages, accused the DA of making a false statement that: “The City of Joburg ... will not be plunged into darkness for as long as the ANC is in office.” He said that the DA’s statement not only attempted to cause unnecessary panic, but also created an impression that City Power only functions when contractors are appointed and that without them, the utility cannot function. While contracts play a vital role in supporting personnel, they work under the supervision of the utility’s engineers who are competent, qualified, able and professionals and are capable of handling the challenges, he said. On Tuesday, after some residents had been without power for almost two days, the MMC went to evaluate the electricity infrastructure, claiming most had been damaged by recent storms. Moerane said the Nursery substation in Roodepoort had its roof blown off by the heavy storm causing severe damage affecting Florida, Floracliff, Discovery and Selwyn. The power outage from the Pennyville substation affecting Witpoortjie, Groblerpark, Princess had been restored after the outage was caused by a blown switchgear. The Eagle Canyon area had a cable fault. There has also been calls from Roodepoort, Lenasia, Hursthill, Bellevue, Berea, Bertrams and Bruma. He reassured residents that there was no crisis with regard to the labour contracts. “At least 129 companies have been on board, and almost half have already started working. The remaining ones are undergoing training,” he said. Regarding water outages, Moerane said a power failure occurred at the Orlando substation, which supplies the Rand Water Eikenhof pump station with power that feeds the south and west of Joburg. “Johannesburg Water found that a valve gate on the bulk line was in a closed position and no water was going into the reservoir,” he said. DA councillor Nicole van Wyk said that in May last year, the Gauteng High Court found that City Power’s recent appointment of contractors was invalid and ordered them to restart the process. They were allowed to keep the existing contractors as a stop-gap measure. “Since then, City Power has engaged in a number of tender processes which have all been tainted with fraud, or just plain incompetence. Now the chief executive of City Power, Malope Ramagaga, is asking the courts for another extension. “His priorities are clearly not with residents. There is also no sign of the forensic investigation. While City Power claims that they are getting extra contractors, we know from the teams on the ground that these have not materialised,” she said. The Star