Johannesburg - A Klerksdorp, North West, attorney has been struck off the roll for gross incompetence. Hendrik Jacobus Hattingh, owner of Dippenaar & Hattingh Attorneys, was taken to the Mahikeng High Court by the Legal Practice Council (LPC). The LPC applied for Hattingh to be stuck off the roll because it had received various complaints against him from the public. All the complaints against Hattingh demonstrated gross incompetence and dishonesty, it said. The major complaint was brought by three businessmen who deposited R588 000 into Hattingh’s trust banking account in 2014. The three had entered into sale agreements with Sudami Wildlife Services to purchase wildlife. Hattingh had to facilitate the sale. Hattingh had failed to transfer the money to the seller, who ended up cancelling the agreement. Hattingh remained unable to refund the complainants, the LPC told the court. In another complaint, Hattingh had failed to distribute estate funds. While he was appointed the estate’s administrator by the court, he instead left the matter to the hands of his office manager, Cheryl Van der Merwe. The LPC also took Hattingh to task over his failure to maintain proper accounting records. An inspection of his account revealed that he failed to record payments received from or paid to individual trust creditors. He also failed to file his auditor’s report timeously for a decade. Hattingh, who was admitted as an attorney in 1995, also failed to explain the reason for abandoning his practice during 2017, 2018 and 2019. He had to notify the LPC of his absence, as per regulations. Hattingh’s defence was that although his conduct in the matters was unprofessional, he was not deceitful or dishonest. He did not deserve to be struck off the roll, he argued. In her scathing judgment, Judge Tebogo Djaje ruled in favour of the LPC’s application. There was no doubt that in the Sudami complaint, Hattingh “was reckless as he could not account to the complainants about the money that was deposited into his trust account”, Judge Djaje said. “The respondent’s conduct of failing to account for monies paid into his trust account, failing to keep proper books of accounting and more seriously practising without a fidelity fund certificate, makes him unfit to practice or be a member of the attorneys’ profession.” The Star