Johannesburg - The memorial service of the late Kwaito star Nomasonto “Mshoza” Maswanganyi may have started with a sombre mood, but it soon became a party, just the way the artist would have wanted. It was the presence of the likes of Sandile “Mapaputsi” Ngwenya and Nkosinathi “Mzambiya” Zwane that added to the joyful mood. The stage at Baseline, Newtown, was covered in white cloth and adorned with white flowers and lit candles. Several images of Mshoza were placed strategically on the stage, some of her smiling while others were of the deceased Kwaito star posing with confidence. The proceedings for the 37-yearold’s memorial service took a while to start at the Newtown venue in Joburg. Fans, family and friends came dressed in white T-shirts and bucket hats to celebrate the life of the star. Mshoza died last week. She was diabetic. Mzambiya, who grew up in the industry with Mshoza, said: “My heart is sore. It is sad to be here where we used to perform and now we are laying you to rest.” He told how he met Mshoza back in 1998 while he was trying to get into the music business. “She saw the way I was doing my thing and liked my lyrical content and suggested that we become a team because she had mad skills. Since we had no phones I gave her my home address. We became friends instantly.” As friends, Mzambiya and Mshoza would go everywhere together and she would tag along to his gigs. “She is gone in the flesh but spiritually she is still here. Rest in peace my sister, we love you. We became popular when democracy was still young. You did your thing, may your soul rest in peace.” Producer Oscar Mlangeni, who discovered Mshoza with Nimrod Nkosi, said he would miss her bubbly personality. “I was the first to apply for a passport for her, first to take her on a flight, we had our own ‘shot-left’ and used map books to learn the places we were going to. I have never seen Sonto moody, she was always smiling, always ready to laugh.” Ziyawamo Productions label owner Mzura Khuse spoke about how Mshoza’s song Hlaba Lingene became a hit. “I told her hits are not made in the studio but in the streets. After we made the song, no record label wanted to sign her and she decided to sign under me. The first DJ to give her a break with that song was DJ Fresh who played the song on YFM.” Khuse said they would market the song by calling in to different radio stations everyday using public phones and requesting it to be played. “Hlaba Lingene blew and she became the first female Kwaito artist to get endorsed by Puma. She was dramatic but had a good heart. She would humble herself and apologise when she was wrong.” Mshoza’s artists from her recording label Mshoza Bozza Entertainment spoke glowingly of her. One of them, Drenkco, had mourners in stitches talking about the things he would get up to with Mshoza and the other members whenever they would do gigs. “She signed about 40 of us, artists, dancers, gospel singers, drummers and the like. Two months into the stable, we were told we had used up R2 million. Mshoza helped us with many things and helped us in this industry.” Mapaputsi performed his hit song Izinja while the DJ played all of Mshoza’s hits including Abantu Bam and Ayina Chorus during intervals which got those gathered to dance and celebrate. Priscilla Mnisi spoke about the gospel album Mshoza suggested the family do. “We put the album together, 12 songs, in a week. We all did solos. I don’t think I will ever have an aunt that I loved like her.” Producer Christian Heath spoke about how Mshoza wanted to write a song titled Let Me Live My Life. “She spoke about how she didn’t enjoy how the media would dig into her personal life. A businesswoman at heart and a family woman, she never had anything bad to say about anyone.” Manager Thanduxolo Jindela said he would miss his sister and friend. “I met Sonto 11 years ago and our friendship started on a very high note. She was what I needed at that time. There was Mshoza and Nomasonto. I loved Sonto and worked with Mshoza. Your addition to the heavenly gig guide is a big one. You are going to perform and teach them that side how to make the best hits. She made a mark. She came and she delivered.” Mshoza’s funeral will take place on Saturday and there will be a special viewing for fans at Pimville Square in Soweto. The Star