Johanneburg - Viggy and Virginia Qwabe, better known as the Q Twins, have spent the last few months perfecting their love for music. The duo were catapulted to stardom on the previous season of Idols SA making it into the Top 10 before their dramatic exit after one of the twins, Virginia, was eliminated. Viggy did not want to continue without her sister and decided to quit Fast-forward to this year, and the duo is ready to release their album, The Gift of Love, and reintroduce themselves to South Africa. “We have a real love for each other and we are appreciative of the love we have received from people. It was during lockdown that we decided to get the album ready.” The twins kept writing during the lockdown and that helped them to stay creative. Signed under DJ Tira’s label, Afrotainment, they had the freedom to write their own songs while still working with various producers and songwriters. Their first single, Hamba, produced by Mondli Ngcobo, was their first introduction to the music world. They followed with AmaGifts and Show Me featuring the Jaziel brothers. The Q Twins have made it known that nothing can separate them and intend to keep it that way. “It’s always hard for our fans to know who is singing in our songs but that is the thing we love about ourselves; keeping the people guessing. It is an exciting part about us.” They feel the album of 11 tracks will be a hit. One of the songs they relate most to is Umuhle. “We faced a lot of negativity on social media with people saying bad things about us. With this song we don’t want people to look down on themselves but to rather feel free about who they are … beautiful just the way God made you.” To the people who will be hearing their voices for the first time, the twins want them to open themselves up to love. The work features collaborations with DJ Tira, Claudio and Kent as well as Joocy. Viggy’s biggest motivation is to push through the obstacles. “You don’t know what life has in store so don’t stop, push through it all.” The Gift of Love is now available on all digital platforms. The Star