By Editorial This past weekend, a handful of political parties embarked on door-to-door campaigning ahead of Wednesday’s by-elections. More visible were members of the ANC in various branches as well as the Good Party led by Public Works and Infrastructure Minister Patricia De Lille, who encouraged many members of the public to vote for change. There is no doubt that between today and tomorrow we will see more parties come out in numbers in a bid to woo voters and gain more wards. While this is a crucial time for parties to exert their influence, it is equally an important time for many South Africans in various wards as they look forward to these parties telling them how they intend to bring about much-needed changes in their respective communities. Many residents in the 95 wards that will be hosting by-elections probably don’t ask for much besides for basic services to be delivered, as some of them continue to languish in unbearable poverty. They aren’t looking for empty promises, but rather transparency and hard work from the councillors they will elect. The by-elections also present an opportunity for independent candidates to show their mettle and how on their own they will also bring about change and build up their profile for bigger elections. This comes after the Constitutional Court ruled on June 11 that the Electoral Act as it stood excluded independent candidates from contesting national and provincial elections. The right to vote is enshrined in our Constitution and everyone who is eligible should be allowed to participate. Elections speak to the necessity of promoting good democracy and good governance. But as many have often said, democracy is messy. It is particularly messy when those in power show little regard for it. When this happens, communities become wary of empty promises and over time grow tired and revolt. As we have seen with so many powerful leaders, sheer arrogance and the failure to listen to the masses often result in devastating consequences. It leads to many of them being booted out of office without recourse. Therefore, every councillor who wishes to lead communities in the future should do so with the utmost respect for our constitutional democracy. The Star