Johannesburg - The first trailer for debut reality series Lebo M – Coming Home, has been released and promises to be an in-depth look into the life of the award-winning producer. “I’ve worked with some of the biggest and greatest, most talented people in the world,” Lebo M said. The producer has a number of achievements to his name, including a Grammy Award, a nomination for a Tony Award for his work on the highest-grossing Broadway production of all time and producing the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2010 Fifa World Cup. The DStv MVCA Legend Award recipient said he was re-entering a phase in his life as a family man for this new reality series. “Family has always been the basis under which I function better.” In the trailer, viewers see him throw a house warming at his equestrian estate in Blair Athol, which he calls “our final home”. He shares the mansion with his elderly mother, four of his children, and Angela Ngani-Casara, his third wife, who talks in the trailer of “a new era, a new dawn”. Lebo M has had his songs streamed over 250 million times on Spotify alone. Over the years, the star has been faced with a lot of family drama that has been in the media. The dysfunctionality of his family history, which has seen him married three times, helping to raise nine children along the way, one of whom tragically passed away, will all form part of the new show. The tension with Tshepiso, his only surviving son, is evident in the trailer. Tshepiso lives in Midrand and has just become a father himself, but Lebo admits in the trailer: “I’m in the worst relationship with my son that I’ve ever been, since he was born.” But, by the end of the trailer he says he is ready to face the music. The reality series is a debut from Dopezuluboi Productions, founded by Teddy Geldart, who directed two seasons of Being Bonang and was executive producer of the Safta-winning Living The Dream With Somizi Season 4 and this year’s other hit reality show, Kwa Mam’Mkhize. Lebo M – Coming Home is the third original reality series this year from Showmax, after Somizi & Mohale: The Union broke the overall first-day viewing record on the platform and Life with Kelly Khumalo became the fastest Showmax Original to top one million views. Other upcoming originals include Babes Wodumo and Mampintha’s reality series Uthando Lodumo, the long-awaited second season of the Safta-winning comedy, Tali’s Wedding Diary, the nightclub-set murder mystery Skemerdans, and the smalltown psychological thriller Dam, all expected in early 2021. Lebo M – Coming Home launches next month. The Star