The family has called on anyone who has information on how she died to approach the police, amid allegations Muzikayise Malephane was paid R70 000 to kill her. The case of Malephane, 31, accused of murdering Pule, who was 8 months pregnant, was on Wednesday postponed to July 2 after he dropped Legal Aid and asked to be represented by a private lawyer. Pule’s body was found hanging from a tree after she was last seen getting into a metered taxi called by her boyfriend. There have been many allegations regarding how she died. The Sowetan reported Malephane made a statement to the police implicating a person who was close to Pule. The report alleged Malephane revealed it was a second attempt on her life. The Sunday Times reported Malephane was allegedly childhood friends with Pule’s boyfriend Ntuthuko Shoba. There are also speculations and rumours on social media that Pule’s murder was orchestrated by Shoba’s wife, who allegedly paid Malephane R70 000 to kill Pule as she posed a threat to her marriage. Pule’s uncle Tumisang Katake told The Star the allegations of who was involved in Pule’s death were concerning and hurt the family as they had not been confirmed yet. “If somebody was there when negotiations were taking place for a payment and stuff, please approach the police. “If somebody was there when the planning took place of how Tshego will be murdered, please take the information to the police, because what’s flying around is just speculation and conspiracies. We haven’t had a report from the police which confirms those rumours,” he said. Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele could not confirm there were other people who were involved in Pule’s death, but said investigations were ongoing. “If the investigation leads to other suspects, they will be arrested, but at the moment the investigation is ongoing,” he said. Malephane made a brief appearance at the Roodepoort Magistrate’s Court via video link from Krugersdorp Prison. He told Magistrate John Baloyi he was abandoning the services of a Legal Aid lawyer and would secure his own attorney. He is facing a premeditated murder charge. This postponement did not sit well with some supporters who sat in the gallery during the proceedings. “The justice system needs to change,” a woman shouted. Speaking after court, Katake said the family were still feeling fragile. Outside the court, the ANC Women’s League, the EFF and the Not In My Name movement were among those who picketed. @Chulu_M The Star