By Youssef Amrani A nations’s destiny is shaped by history, vision and identity much more than by events or circumstances. The Covid-19 crisis cannot and will not undermine the natural evolutions of states, nor will it compromise the coherence and consistency of their sovereign approaches. It is the courage of our choices, the principles of our beliefs and the depth of our commitments that define how we seek progress as nations. The Moroccan perspective is perhaps one of the most eloquent reflections of this reality. As the kingdom celebrates Youth Day on Friday, it appears that the dynamism of the Moroccan nation is gaining momentum and continues to fulfil its role in the construction of a modern and prosperous Morocco. The osmosis of the model is that of a past that has never been betrayed, a present that remains a priority and a future that is constantly anticipated. Humanism, altruism and solidarity are the enduring components of this model, which many describe today as the “Moroccan exception”. The heart of this identity is that of a royal vision which strengthens national cohesion based on shared ambitions and common values. Under the leadership of His Majesty King Mohammed VI, it is not only crisis management, but a life-changing social shift that has been initiated. One that places a confident bet on the future, based on a clear path of development and a profusion of ambitions. Morocco has always put the human element at the heart of its priorities. Covid-19 has confirmed and strengthened Morocco’s social conscience and awareness. The kingdom is driven by empathy, imbued with fraternity and nurtured by compassion. His Majesty King Mohammed VI’s strategic orientation has brought together all the nation’s stakeholders around resilience and prosperity. The economic cost of this approach is high, but its value and impact on the nation is immeasurable. Peace, security and health are priceless - these require clear-sightedness and responsibility. Morocco continues to invest in the future by using a model that is centred on progress, sharing, rule of law, justice and democracy. Morocco is finalising a new model of development that corrects past shortcomings and fosters a brighter future. The components include the solutions brought forth by Morocco against Covid-19 and are the result of the same forward-looking spirit - one that blooms in an approach that is inclusive, analytical and prospective. My country seeks to act in coherence with the realities of our time. Morocco never forgets that the health and well-being of a nation are one and indivisible with its prosperity. The sovereign has indicated that 120 billion Moroccan dirhams (R227bn) will be injected into the economy - equivalent to 11% of GDP. Social coverage will be extended to the benefit of all Moroccans, making humanitarianism, empathy and inclusion the heading of a new Moroccan chapter. Moroccan dynamics are those of an honoured and proud African affiliation. Beyond its borders, Morocco is mobilising efforts to foster unity and support. Morocco offers concrete solutions to African issues and pragmatic strategies to African aspirations. Dialogue, consultation and co-operation are the cornerstones of an African convergence which is supported, advocated for and promoted by the kingdom. The ability to harness the unknown can be achieved through the pooling of efforts. The future must be built together through cohesion and fraternity. The pandemic has and will continue to have economic impacts that are as devastating as they are disruptive to Africa - a deteriorating human and social situation across the continent is foreshadowed and the pandemic will probably lead to a recession. Economic growth will decrease and it is estimated that the economy will shrink by around -3% this year, which could eventually cause the loss of more than 200 million jobs and see up to 49 million people living in extreme poverty. Political will is not enough - it must be able to blossom in the expression of a vision that unites forces, adjusts varying approaches and cements complementarities. The legitimacy of institutions, the coherence of mechanisms and the relevance of decisions will result from an Africa that breaks with outdated ideologies, irrelevant realities and past shortcomings. Africa falls short of being what it aspires to be. Regional and sub-regional integration schemes remain deficient, substantive convergence is limited and mechanisms for dialogue are under- or poorly exploited. If the AU is the centre of African unity, its content must be that of continental homogeneity. Co-operation, dialogue and openness become the parameters that drive the success of an African project. Africa must measure up to meet the expectations of its people, especially women and youth. It is the idea of unity, the ambition of coherence and the need for cohesion that underpin the approach of Morocco - a country federated around commitments which have never ceased to advance prosperity at a national level, and to promote emergence on a continental level. Amrani is the ambassador of Morocco to South Africa. The Star