Johannesburg - Teachers and learners of a Gauteng school are feeling the pinch as the institution is at loggerheads with the government over financial mismanagement accusations. Teachers at New Generation Combined school, an independent school in Lenasia, have not been getting their salaries for almost five months as the department has withheld its subsidy. This has seen a sharp decline in teachers reporting for duty and learners attending schools as well as a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE). The school has resorted to borrowing from neighbouring schools. Out of 27 teachers, only 15 go to work as they cannot afford petrol or transport fares. The government blocked the school's subsidy following allegations of mismanagement by the school’s owners. The institution’s sister schools Isikhumbuzo Secondary and Solwazi Primary are also affected. All three schools get a R15million state subsidy. Teaching at the Lenasia school has continued in accordance with the department's guidelines despite teachers not being compensated. According to Gauteng Education Department spokesperson Steve Mabona, the department received complaints of misappropriations and mismanagement of funds against the owner of the school and their sister schools. The matter was currently in court. A senior teacher at the school said he has been battling with accommodation because of the money freeze. “Ever since the lockdown began, I have changed places three times and I owe the previous two landlords. I’m not sure how my family and I will pay at the end of this month because it’s not looking good at all. We have turned into laughing stocks in our communities,” he said. PPE shortages have also become a problem. “The school only got 25 litres of sanitisers,10 soaps and 10 boxes of masks with each box containing 50 masks inside but it’s finished now and we have to go around asking for PPEs.” The school has seen 134 Grade 7 learners return to school under the revised schools calendar. Another teacher said: “We (teachers) don't know what we did wrong. We are suffering because of other people’s actions and it’s really painful.'' The Star has seen an email sent to Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi by department head Edward Mosuwe. In it, Mosuwe indicated that the department had released the school’s subsidy. However, Mabona said the department has changed its position on releasing the funds. “As per the public finance management Act, the HOD as the accounting officer has a responsibility to ascertain that all funds transferred to schools are efficiently utilised, hence a decision not to transfer funds into the said schools was taken,” Mabona said. The schools sought the help of lawyers to get their subsidy from government. The court ruled in their favour but the department has appealed the ruling. The Star