Johannesburg - Women creating wealth is the trending hashtag to support female-owned businesses. The concept came into being after Motshwane Sebetola saw a challenge that was trending on Instagram where women were updating black and white pictures of themselves and tagging friends. “I was not entirely sure what the purpose of that campaign was, but I thought it would be a more impactful idea to switch things up and create a new challenge where we shine the spotlight on women-owned businesses, women in business especially this Women’s Month. “If consumers of our products and services do not know of our existence, they will not buy from us. I wanted a campaign that would expose and uncover hidden gems among us by leveraging on the power of social media and our networks. This in the hope that we will turn our networks into net worth.” Sebetola forms part of the 120 business women who make up a cohort of entrepreneurs under the Graça Machel Trust (GMT) Women Creating Wealth programme. The Entrepreneurship Development Programme started in February and has seen the cohorts being empowered and continually collaborating, coaching and supporting each other’s businesses even during this “business unusual” time. “The GMT cohort members loved the idea and their support in terms of using our different skill sets to get it off the ground has been nothing short of amazing. After I shared the idea with our main group, we created a ‘MindHerBusiness’ WhatsApp group to share more ideas until everything fell into place. I also shared it on my personal social media and the responses we received were positive.” She added that the #WomenCreatingWealth campaign aims to shine a spotlight on women. “Like Mama Machel said, when you invest in a woman, you invest in families. During these tough times women are faced with countless challenges and if we could have one less challenge with our finances, some of our burdens would really be light.” Sebetola describes her journey into business as a “character building roller-coaster”. “I never imagined myself as an entrepreneur. When I finally jumped, I thought it would be easy and everything would fall into place. We literally have to go out there and hunt otherwise it’s no work no pay.” The Star