Johannesburg - Some people worry about catching Covid-19 if they visit clinics and hospitals. Now, a new platform is making it safe for people who need to test for HIV/Aids to do so in the comfort of their own homes, while also offering information on how to manage the disease. Aviro Health, a start-up supported by the University of Pretoria's technology incubator and accelerator, TuksNovation, has launched a chatbot-based platform Ithaka that offers people access to HIV self-testing resources, and the information they need to seek treatment and manage their condition. Ithaka is the result of an ongoing collaboration between Aviro Health and Population Services Kenya, which is distributing kits free via community-based organisations and at heavily subsidised rates through online pharmacies. It was launched in 2019 in South Africa where live trials with leading HIV health providers have shown the platform to be effective in supporting patients and promoting healthy behaviours. Ithaka was soft-launched in Kenya in May, and has already served more than 1000 patients, with more than 700 reporting results and accessing testing certificates. Those who test positive are connected with resources to access treatment as soon as possible. “We wanted to use the Ithaka platform to support our self-testing work, as it offers users a holistic understanding of how to take HIV self-tests, access services and look after their health, regardless of their status," Dr Margaret Njenga, director of Population Services Kenya, said. "The chatbot serves as a digital companion, guiding the user through the process of HIV self-testing and thereafter providing support in accessing care based on the results, all while maintaining their dignity and protecting their privacy," Njenga said. “We recognise that Covid-19 has the potential to shift the way in which public health is delivered, including the way in which HIV testing is offered. We are helping health systems to adapt to this change by continuing to respond with tools that address the core needs of patients in innovative, affordable and accessible ways, providing empathetic and supportive healthcare at their fingertips,” said Dr Musaed Abrahams, chief executive of Aviro Health, which is design-focused and uses digital tools to improve the experience of healthcare. Aviro Health’s goal is to make user-friendly mobile services like these commonplace not only in times of crisis, but permanently. The Star