Author and singer Mariloe Booysen is using her talent to make space for voices of women. Through her upcoming EP, Sow, the singer aims to tell real life stories that affect the gender most affected by gender-based violence (GBV). “The idea with the project is something that has happened in my personal space and also looking collectively as women. GBV and femicide rates are so high, even with acting work, I have to audition to be an abused woman, everything is based on talking about that.” Booysen said victim shaming was one of the reasons it was difficult for women to ask for help. “I had a friend who died from femicide 10 years ago and I am only speaking about it now. I thought if I could write a song about GBV, I could change that negative emotion into something that gives them hope. There’s a song called She Don’t that talks about GBV and punches right in the gut of the issue.” Sow carries through her "Zazzo" sound - the tilted Z is the N in RnB, the "azz" is from jazz and the O from soul - a sound she has mastered through poetry, famous song covers and original work that she has shared with the world. Her house music background has also propelled her to focus on becoming an independent artist. “In the house music scene, the producers and composers get all the recognition for the work. One of my songs has been playing on the radio for two years and I haven’t received any royalties. I told myself it was time to step back and understand the music business a bit more.” Booysen has taken full control of her project as an independent artist. “This is the ideal time to share recorded work of my most authentic sound. I leaned into my independence shortly after giving birth to my first child, a girl child. "Her presence in my life reinforced how unaware I was of the God-given strength a woman possesses. How very capable and resilient we are individually and collectively,” she said. The Pretoria-based singer hopes the EP will touch those who are hearing her sound for the first time. “I want people to get an experience from the music and be transcendent for a moment to think about being kinder to self and loving yourself a little bit more.” One of the tracks, 9-5, speaks to passion being privilege and worth keeping it alive. The music is hopeful and speaks to the lighter side of looking towards yourself and knowing you may not get another chance.” Affectionately known as "That Flower Lady", she has performed locally and internationally. Her EP was written over two years and during that time she also published her first book, 30 Poetic Petals, a poetry book. “I wrote the book when I was home (Eastern Cape) and in a bad space. I was trying to figure out how to be a mom and while cleaning out my clutter found old notepads and songs. I put together 30 poems and now the book is registered to the SA national libraries .” The EP will be available on digital platforms next month. The Star