Johannesburg - Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has issued a stern warning to officials who fail to co-operate with her office’s investigations into suspected Covid-19 fraud cases. This after provincial administrators in the Eastern Cape, Limpopo and Gauteng were said to be among public servants who have allegedly not complied with Mkhwebane’s Covid-19 fund theft probe. Mkhwebane’s spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe, issued the reprimand but refused to divulge more information pertaining to the officials. The protector warned that those who fail to comply with their investigations might be found guilty of an offence. “Section 11 of the act provides that any person who without just cause refuses or fails to comply with a direction of request under section 7(4), or refuses to answer questions put to them under that section, or gives answers which they know to be false, shall be guilty of an offence.” Mkhwebane said any person convicted of such an offence shall be liable to a fine not exceeding R40000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months or both. Her office said their investigators’ attempt to deal with alleged Covid-19 irregularities has been met with resistance from senior government officials, including heads of department. “Among the reasons provided for the apparent refusal to answer questions or avail information required for investigations is that such information has already been provided to other forums such as the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) and auditor-general of South Africa.” Mkhwebane went on to explain that the public protector was an independent constitutional institution with the power to investigate any alleged or suspected improper or prejudicial conduct in state affairs or in the public administration and in any sphere of government, to report on that conduct and to take appropriate remedial action. “Unlike the public protector, the SIU is a statutory body whose investigations are prompted by presidential proclamations. “The outcomes of its investigations are reported back to the president, in contrast to those of the public protector which must be made public unless there are special circumstances preventing the airing of such information. “The A-G, on the other hand, audits organs of state’s performance, financial management and compliance with policies and other prescripts.” The SIU recently indicated that Gauteng had the highest number of people and companies facing civil and criminal prosecution due to the alleged theft of Covid-19 funds. SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said: “As of last week Wednesday, we had 648 cases totalling an amount of just over R5billion. “Gauteng had the biggest cases worth about R2.2bn.” Kganyago added that Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha had asked them to investigate three of his departments, including the construction of shacks in Tzaneen and Burgersfort. The Star