Cape Town – Parkwood Maulana Dawood Sampson was forced to retract and issue an apology for his “derogatory” statements about women posted in videos that have since gone viral on Facebook. Sampson comments in at least two videos on the social media platform that were made under the guise of polygamy and his upcoming nuptials to his second wife, which he claims to be under Sharia law. In one of the videos, Sampson said: “If there are men who still got it, then get yourself a love bird. You can have, like a cock has two three hens, come on men, we are cocks and get those hens” In another video, promoting a 10-week “marriage course with a difference”, Sampson said “a wife is cute when she is mute and a husband is honey when he gives money”. The videos sparked an online petition which has garnered more than 2000 signatures and called for the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) to address the “issues of toxic masculinity by Islamic leadership”. “The deplorable actions of a Capetonian cleric within the Muslim community has gone viral for all the wrong reasons. ’’The principles of Islamic teachings would not condone vulgarity, or insinuating that women are a mere product that has no rights. This petition is to garner a voice against toxic masculinity that needs to be addressed by the MJC,” the petition read. In his apology, Sampson said: “It was regrettably misconstrued to undermine and be disrespectful to our women. ’’Sometimes it is not good to say things in jest. Please accept my heartfelt and humble apology.” The MJC said it noted his utterances with concern. “At the outset we acknowledge the provisions, both within Sharia and South African law, that permits polygamous marriages. These marriages are allowed within context and under relevant criteria. ’’However, we are deeply concerned at the wording and content of the posted message. The references made to women during the recording even though unintended are unfortunate. “We reaffirm the sacred trust in which women are held within Islam and consequently the duty of protection and dignity of women must be upheld at all times. ’’The duty to uphold this is even more significant as we as a nation celebrate Women’s Month.” Cape Times