Now that inter-provincial travel has been given the green light, many South Africans are planning their much needed holiday. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Saturday that the ban of inter-provincial travel will be lifted once the country moves into alert level 2 from midnight on Monday, August 17. While some travellers will explore their province, others want to discover other destinations in the country, which may require flying. Since the pandemic started, many airlines ceased operations, opening to business travellers in June. IOL Travel looked at an estimated price you may pay for a flight to these destinations in South Africa. These results are based on return travel from August 28-30 for one person. Rates may differ according to the dates of your trip. Durban to Johannesburg FlySafair A return trip from King Shaka International Airport to OR Tambo International Airport will cost from R938. Mango A return trip from King Shaka International Airport to OR Tambo International Airport will cost from R1603 96. Johannesburg to Durban FlySafair A return trip from OR Tambo International Airport to King Shaka International Airport will cost from R1037. Mango A return trip from OR Tambo International Airport to King Shaka International Airport will cost from R1520,98. Cape Town to Johannesburg FlySafair A return trip from Cape Town International Airport to OR Tambo International Airport will cost from R1638. Mango A return trip from Cape Town International Airport to OR Tambo International Airport will cost from R2 684.96. Johannesburg to Cape Town FlySafair A return trip from OR Tambo International Airport to Cape Town International Airport will cost from R2 038. Mango A return trip from OR Tambo International Airport to Cape Town International Airport will cost from R2 546.96. Cape Town to Durban FlySafair A return trip from Cape Town International Airport to King Shaka International Airport will cost from R1 638. Mango A return trip from Cape Town International Airport to King Shaka International Airport will cost from R1 818.98. Durban to Cape Town FlySafair A return trip from  King Shaka International Airport to Cape Town International Airport will cost from R1638. Mango A return trip from  King Shaka International Airport to Cape Town International Airport will cost from R1 588.98.  