By Editorial Again our ill-disciplined politicians are being caught with their dirty hands in among the cookies, while Covid-19 has pushed many of our brothers and sisters into a life of anxiety, poverty and uncertainty. The virus has brought a new reality of masks, sanitisers and physical distancing which has become our “new normal”. However, many of us are struggling to come to terms with the unfamiliar economic blows that Covid-19 keeps throwing our way. South Africa has had its share of financial predicaments due to global economic challenges, but the coronavirus caught us all off guard. While other countries have started to pick themselves up and are mending their economies, South Africa is lagging and dealing with old skeletons like corrupt government officials, crime, economic inequalities and inept government. All these are currently at play as we battle to flatten the Covid-19 infection curve. This week our sister publication, Sunday Independent, reported on how the Gauteng Health Department allegedly used a front company, Ledla Structural Development, to pay Royal Bhaca Projects R80million to supply personal protective equipment. Royal Bhaca is owned by Thandisizwe Diko, who is married to Khusela, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson. The Dikos are also friends with the department’s MEC, Bandile Masuku, and his wife Loyiso (who also serves as Joburg MMC of group corporate); all have been implicated in this saga. They have been temporarily removed from their government positions while the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) probes the matter. The SIU is investigating around 100 companies for PPE tenders and it looks like the dirt might go beyond just Gauteng. But the truth of the matter is no top politician has ever seen the inside of a prison because of corruption. They always get away with it despite the law enforcement agencies and costly commissions of inquiry, while ordinary citizens suffer continued poverty. Ramaphosa’s promises of a new dawn have yet to manifest and South Africans have had enough of his pussy-footing around real issues and trying to please everyone. He needs to strike a balance between his obligations at Luthuli House and his crucial job at the Union Buildings before the #CyrilMustGo, which trended on Twitter on Sunday, becomes his “new normal”. The Star