Johannesburg – Women surviving abuse was at the forefront of a virtual panel discussion hosted by Vodacom on the impact of gender-based violence (GBV) and how society can overcome it. The conversation on Facebook Live was facilitated by writer, poet and actress Lebogang Mashile on Tuesday and hosted by Vodacom chief officer for corporate affairs Takalani Netshitenzhe. Panellists included TV show host and inspirational speaker Masingita Masunga, pan-African queer feminist and actress Rosie Motene and operations manager at Frida Hartley Shelter for Women Cheryl Hlabane. Netshitenzhe said that as a young woman at university during the 1980s, she learned that women, particularly black women, suffered from a triple form of oppression. “Black women don’t only suffer from gender discrimination. We also have to contend with racial discrimination and women from rural areas and underserviced areas also have to deal with social discrimination. “This is too much for one woman to bear but these are the burdens women carry silently in their daily lives,” she said. The panel also saw the discussion on how GBV was addressed in South Africa during Women’s Month. “How we’ve tolerated, accepted and negotiated around GBV has changed. There is a direct shift where a lot of us have acknowledged the misogynistic ideologies that have been engrained and so there is a lot of unlearning that needs to be done,” Motene said. She recalled her first experience of physical abuse at university and told of different levels of abuse. “Each level is different and, unfortunately, when life happens, it happens and you need to deal with how you are going to get out of it but it’s about rising to the top,” she said. Hlabane called on society to stop stigmatising abuse victims and holding on to a notion that survivors looked, sounded and behaved in a particular way. “The women that come to the shelter are the women who packed their bags and were willing to leave a comfortable environment to be in an uncomfortable situation,” she said. She said during the lockdown, women’s shelters were filled to capacity. “Our shelters are filled to capacity and I get a lot of calls and messages from women crying and wanting to move right now, but where do we take them because we don’t have adequate funding and our spaces are limited.” Netshitenzhe spoke about Vodacom’s Gender-Based Violence Command Centre, in partnership with the Department of Social Development, that is run by trained social workers. “Last year, the command centre received about 87 000 general calls and 1 800 of those were GBV related. Between January and now, the command centre has already received over 100 000 general calls and over 3 000 of those are GBV related,” she said. She said the majority of calls during the lockdown came from Gauteng, the Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. “It’s really scary,” she said in response to the figures. The discussion also saw the announcement of Masunga’s appointment as Vodacom Foundation’s ambassador. “I think it’s a historic move, for a person with a disability, being named the ambassador of a huge brand,” Masunga said. @Chulu_M The Star