Shudufhadzo Musida is a firm favourite to possibly take the title of Miss South Africa. As the contestant who won the public vote to propel her into the top 10, chances for the international relations honours student are high to take home one of the three titles up for grabs. Miss South Africa will, for the first time, have three representatives for the three biggest pageants in the world. In addition to the representatives for Miss Universe and Miss World, one of the top 3 will be a candidate for Miss Supranational. “Adding the Miss Supranational title gives us that much more visibility internationally. The platform talks to our ethos and who we are. "It also allows a third person to potentially make South Africa proud,” said Miss SA Organisation chief executive Stephanie Weil. Musida has learnt that her voice matters throughout this journey. “The things I thought were my weaknesses are actually my greatest strengths. The support I have received from Limpopo has been so beautiful. "It represents the best parts of who I am. As a country, we represent humility and kindness,” she said during an online media briefing of the top 10 yesterday. Earlier in the competition, Musida was caught up in a social media misunderstanding that had her trending for the wrong reasons. “I usually don’t respond to negativity when it is false, but I realised it comes with the territory. However, when your work speaks for itself, the truth will prevail. "It was a thing of having to explain to my family what was going on, but for me personally, I just kept it moving.” Karishma Ramdev is a returnee to the pageant after having entered in 2018. “Coming back has been a completely different journey this time. "When I first entered, I didn’t have a lot of pageant experience, with an A-type personality, and I didn’t know a lot and was overwhelmed. "This time, I am going to be vulnerable and authentic,” she said. Jordan van der Vyver and Chantelle Pretorius are full-time international models and many people have asked if that does not give them some type of an advantage. “It has helped me to grow and become the person that I am today - adaptable and resilient,” said Van der Vyver. Melissa Nayimuli and Aphelele Mbiyo, the two Eastern Cape beauties, felt pressure initially, being from the same province as current Miss Universe Zozibini Tunzi. “People were trying to make comparisons but Aphelele and I are different. We are proud of the Eastern Cape and are pushing our own messages and legacies,” said Nayimuli. Mbiyo says the one thing they have in common is their drive and heritage. “Our province has had many people who have done amazing things.” The coronavirus has changed the way things are done and Weil said the organisation was embracing it fully. “One thing that has been brought into the limelight is the power of social media, and we have been doing this process online. Bringing voice to important topics is the future.” The Miss South Africa pageant will be broadcast on October 24.