Johannesburg - Analysis of the infection rate among teachers in Gauteng shows theirs is on par with that of the general population. The reopening of schools has been a contentious issue, with widespread concerns that schools will lead to the coronavirus spreading. Matric learners went back to school this week after President Cyril Ramaphosa last month closed schools for the second time since the coronavirus pandemic began. Other grades are expected back in class on August 24 and teacher unions have asked the department for a plan on how grades will be phased in safely. The analysis of the Gauteng schools' infection rates until July 8, published on the Basic Education Department website, said the percentage of teachers infected by Covid-19 was not that different to estimates for demographically similar people in the province. In the reporting period, 294 learners, 753 teachers, 76 administrative staff, 33 general assistants and three Youth Brigades had tested positive for Covid-19. The 294 learners come to 0.09% of Gauteng’s grades 7 and 12 learners combined. The 753 educators make up 0.82% of Gauteng’s teachers. The analysis said: “Specifically, positive cases among educators according to the submitted data are between 10% and 20% higher than what one finds in the population as a whole. This should be compared to existing evidence from outside South Africa, that education workers may be 55% more likely than non-essential workers to become infected, and increased likelihood figures of 600% for health workers and 80% for the police.” The analysis also showed that Grade12s were around three times as likely to be positive as learners in Grade 7, which correlates with medical research showing younger children are more resilient to infection. When looking into infection rates by area, the analysis found no evidence of clustering of schools with infections in specific geographic areas. “Schools with cases appear to be relatively evenly spread across the Gauteng schooling system. One exception is the Sedibeng East district, where 41% of schools reported having a case. This figure is considerably higher than that for any other district,” the report stated. The Star