Johannesburg - The further easing of lockdown restrictions has encouraged Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane to lead by example and travel for leisure on an inter-provincial level under the new normal. This comes after President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the reopening of more economic activities, which saw the country shift into alert level 2 permitting inter-provincial travel and reopening of leisure accommodations. The move to alert level 2 saw the Tourism Department call on citizens to embark on leisure travel once again to help overcome their challenges and stabilise businesses in the industry. Kubayi-Ngubane spearheaded the call and took a 120km trip from Johannesburg to Real Adventure in Parys, Free State, over the weekend to assess the measures put in place by the leisure business and explore the beauty of the province. The minister was welcomed with quad bikes on the day, biking through the mountain trails of Parys. The minister and a group of invited journalists also dabbled in river rafting on a boat. The wearing of masks, constant sanitising and social distancing was the order of day as the group was taken through its paces. Speaking to The Star while on a boat the minister said: “This used to be a mining area, which was rich in granite. However, it has been turned into a tourism site now. "The creatives in this province have decided to use this site effectively, where tourists can come and go sailing while others enjoy the view by first-hand experience as they are also taken around the mini-dam situated next to the sailing mountain.” On the second day of the tour, the group moved to Gauteng in Vanderbijlpark and were joined by chief executive of Tourism SA Sisa Ntshona and Riverside Sun Hotel general manager Michelle Bregger. Bregger explained how the hotel accommodation had adapted to the new normal and the challenges they faced. Ntshona said the partial resumption of hotels has only enabled them to recall 12 of their staff members out of a staff complement of 124. “As a business in the leisure space, we appreciate the reopening of the sector. "However, my heart breaks whenever I have to inform other staff members that they can't return to work yet. “We are partially open now, only a section of the hotel is operating. It's a gradual process which others might find frustrating.” The establishment has further introduced new methods, adhering to Covid-19 protocols. Isolated couches have been brought into the reception area and protective gear has become essential for cleaners while regular sanitising takes place. Kubayi-Ngubane conceded that the global pandemic had altered travelling for leisure in the country and that citizens might take a while before taking part in some activities. “It's one step at a time; our people and tourists will not open up to all sorts of adventure, but it is our task to ensure that the sector gets back up on its feet.” The boat cruise was followed by a round of indoor bowling before wrapping up the tour with a game drive. Ntshona said preliminary statistics have been encouraging, with most accommodation booked to capacity ever since the unbanning of leisure accommodation and inter-provincial travelling. “We just want to make sure that remains consistent with that trend and in the next couple of days we will see travel and leisure campaigns coming up.” The Star