Johannesburg - A Krugersdorp man who was nabbed for possessing, creating and importing child pornographic material, including those depicting his own minor child and a relative, has been found guilty. The man, 40, who cannot be named to protect the identities of his child and relative, pleaded guilty to a string of child porn charges at the South Gauteng High Court and was thus found guilty. On Wednesday, prosecutor Rolene Barnard and defence lawyer Vickus Visagie made submissions to acting Judge Daniel Mogotsi on the extent of sentence the man deserved. Barnard told the court the State wanted nothing less than a minimum sentence for the sex pest, despite his guilty plea. “It is my submission that the court should impose a sentence of between 15 to 20 years,” said Barnard. “The court needs to give a proper sentence. The punishment must fit the crime.” The fact that he did not only possess child pornography, but created and distributed it, was aggravating, said Barnard. “The procurement and creation stretches a longer period than the distribution,” she told the court. “He did not just possess (the child pornographic material), he also created and distributed it when the opportunity arrived. “It must be a cumulative sentence. There must be a harsher sentence than just (for) possession.” The man’s crimes were “much more morally reprehensible and disturbing because they involve his family members”, Barnard added. The man shot the sexual material in his home when alone with the minors. He was also found in possession of many images and videos of unknown children. Barnard told Judge Mogotsi all the children abused by the man would be emotionally scarred for life. “It’s common knowledge that his victims will suffer emotional trauma for years to come.” Some of the children may see the material created by the man in future, Barnard said. The fact that the man’s children will be financially disadvantaged by his imprisonment should be viewed as a mitigating circumstance, Judge Mogotsi heard. Barnard said the financial suffering of the sex pest’s family was a “natural consequence” of his crimes. A lanky figure with a silver beard, the man kept calm in the dock. Visagie urged the court to consider that imprisonment of his client would not only affect his children mentally, but emotionally too. He said the children had suffered a great deal emotionally over the last three years due to the absence of their father from their lives. As part of the bail conditions, the sex abuser was ordered to not make contact with his family. Visagie said this was a form of punishment already and should be considered when the sentence is passed. The man left the court a free man as his bail was extended. Judge Mogotsi will sentence him next week. @BonganiNkosi87 The Star