Johanneburg - “It’s never quite the end. The biggest constant you will ever face is change. Don't allow fear to paralyse you, do it anyway.” These are just some of the many lessons that form part of Facebook women's month celebration book Inspiring #Changemakers: Lessons from Life and Business. The book contains 13 chapters featuring 13 inspirational South African businesswomen and change makers who have used their life lessons to become the people they are today. The book's aim is to reach young women aged between 16 and 60 (with emphasis on 16-22-year-olds) to celebrate real women who positively affect society and are role models for the women around them. Featuring 13 women, all are captured by the creative work of three female artists - Karabo Poppy Moletsane, Nontokozo Tshabalala and Zinhle Sithebe. The book includes stories from Nomzamo Mbatha (actress and philanthropist), Mogau Seshoene (chef and author), Bonang Matheba (media personality and entrepreneur), Dr Precious Moloi-Motsepe (doctor and entrepreneur), Rabia Ghoor (entrepreneur), Siba Mtongana (chef and entrepreneur), Professor Thuli Madonsela (advocate and academic), Glenda Ramathavha (entrepreneur), Catherine Constantinides (environmentalist and humanitarian), Keitumetse Qhali (director, writer, producer), Reabetswe Ngwane (entrepreneur), Precious Thamaga-Mazibuko (entrepreneur and chief executive) and Palesa Mokubung (fashion designer). “We wanted to celebrate women who have built new communities around shared interests and brought people together who would never otherwise have met. "Women who have built businesses, created jobs and livelihoods, reaching customers they could never otherwise have reached. "Women who have joined together to raise money for good causes, created movements for social change, organising in a way that was never before possible,” Facebook Africa regional director Nunu Ntshingila said. She added that all the women were born and bred in South Africa and were considered change makers or business leaders in their respective fields. “They are also women from all walks of life and have important lessons to pass on.” Ntshingila said progress was always possible when people had the opportunity to share their stories and hear those of others. The vibrant portrait artwork added a creative touch to the book. “South Africa is rich with vibrant culture and talent. "Our diverse community is made up of extraordinarily different individual identities. "We wanted to work with female illustrators, given it is women's month. "A book about phenomenal women designed by talented female-only illustrators. "It was important for us to collaborate and merge three entirely different talented female artists to work on the book and bring the various illustrations to life using their own sense of style.” Available as a free download from publishing platform ISSUU, a number of printed versions will be made available and distributed by Digify Africa to schools across six provinces in South Africa - Gauteng, Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape, Western Cape and North West. The Star