About 240 healthcare workers from both state hospitals and private facilities have perished from the Covid-19 as they battled in the front line to save thousands of patients. While over 11000 people have died from the unseen enemy, health facilities have been left limping as they too lost over 200 of their own in the fight against the virus. The national Health Department released a full breakdown of public and private healthcare workers who contracted coronavirus as of August 4. According to the department, about 27360 healthcare worker cases have been reported, with 6027 (22%) cases coming from the private sector and 21333 reported in the public sector (78%). The majority of the cases come from nurses with 14143 reported cases (52%), medical doctors make up 1 644 cases (6%), porters (28%) have 28 cases and the rest of the 11545 cases came from other categories of health workers. National Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize also said 240 health workers died from coronavirus as of August 4 and that the public sector accounted for 203 deaths and 37 deaths from the private sector. The majority of doctors who passed away came from Eastern Cape where about 85 workers’ deaths were reported with three cases coming from the private sector. Among the known private and public doctors who reportedly died from the virus include Professor Lungile Pepeta, Dr Liziwe Lynette Kwinana, Dr Nobuntu Songca, Dr Buyile Tom, Dr Mxolisi Ngcwabe and Dr Mandisa Mandile. The second highest number of health workers who died came from Gauteng with about 43 reported cases, 10 cases which come from the private sector and 33 from public health. Among the known private and public doctors who died include Professor Solomon Elias Levin, Dr Duduzile Fakudze-Mahlangu, Dr Clarence Mini, Dr Ntombi Msimanga, Dr Phakamile Mtangai, Dr Tokelo Ramakola, Professor Joel Matsipa, Dr Ntsiki Rantloane, Professor Eric Rosen, Dr Nosipho Tebogo Taye, Dr Jose Mwamba Tshiebwe and Professor Viness Pillay. About 38 healthcare workers from the Western Cape died and 27 cases came from the public sector while 11 from private. Among the known doctors who reportedly died there include Dr Fuad Jakoet, Dr Ebrahim Kahn and Dr Fatima Hansrod. KwaZulu-Natal reported 30 healthcare workers who died, and 27 deaths came from the public sector and three from the private sector. Among the known doctors who reportedly died include Professor Gita Ramjee, Dr Abdul Haque Solwa, Dr Anil Sewmooruth Maharaj, Dr Lashal Athal Sadhabiriss and Dr Anil Bhagwanjee. In the Free State, 21 healthcare workers died, 17 workers from public and four from the private sector. They include Dr Willem Marthinus van Tonder. The North West reported about 16 deaths with six deaths from the private sector and 10 from the public sector. Among the known doctors who died include Dr Lomalisa Litenye and Dr Florah Makama. Mpumalanga reported four healthcare workers from public and three from private having died. Among the known doctors from Mpumalanga who died include Dr Mphadi Clive Mogajane and Dr Cecil Keys. On Monday, Limpopo reported its first healthcare worker deaths after two private doctors died of complications related to Covid-19 while receiving treatment at Netcare and Medi-Clinic respectively. “We salute these fallen soldiers and pay tribute to them for their commitment to serving the people of South Africa right until the very end,” Mkhize said. The SA Medical Association said it remained concerned about the well-being of healthcare workers as infection rates and deaths increased. “Given that the health system in South Africa is pushed to its limits, every doctor who dies represents a significant loss of talent, skill and resources,” the association’s chairperson Dr Angelique Coetzee said. Coetzee added that the association was acutely aware of the risks posed to doctors by the pandemic and their families. “Doctors do not live in bubbles, and any risks they are exposed to are similarly carried by their families,” she said. The National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union said it was worried that the numbers of infected and deceased front line healthcare workers were still increasing on a daily basis. “The main reason behind these horrible numbers is the lack of sufficient personal protective equipment, non-compliance to the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and under-staffing as revealed in our fact-finding mission report,” the union’s general secretary Zola Saphetha said. The Star