Johannesburg - A large character who was a celebrity even before it was a real thing. This is how radio veteran Ernest Pillay describes his friend and colleague, the late Bob Mabena. “He was big time, there was no question about that.” Mabena died on Monday, and his memorial service and funeral will be held virtually via Power FM social media platforms. The memorial will be on Thursday and the funeral on Saturday. Pillay worked with Mabena on Radio Metro (now Metro FM) when the medium was birthing new talent. “He came through from Radio Bop around 1990/1, and I was there already a year at Metro. We were of the same age. I was just a year older. From that perspective, it was a given that we’d navigate towards each other. “I would have done him an injustice if I said it was just the age (that brought us together). He was just a nice guy, a people’s guy, and it was easy to connect with him. Radio was at the centre of everything we shared, including life and good times during those early twenties.” There are many memories they shared, including shows where they would be relieving each other. “I used to do Saturday breakfast on Radio Metro, and he did the Top 40 show called Top CD Top 40 back in those days. I’d end at 9am, and he came in at 9am to take over. That exchange at the top of the hour, I looked forward to that moment. “We had a rapport that almost turned into another show. The Top 40 needed to start, but the exchange we would have would go on for eight to 15 minutes, growing every Saturday because there was just this natural fun we’d have. It was more him, and the affection he had for people.” The two kept at it, with their exchanges almost becoming big until they were called into management and told to stop. “We knew better, especially with the Top 40 show being a time-bound show. He got me sucked into that rapport. It’s the effect he had on people. It’s just one of the fun moments we had.” Pillay would also fill in for Mabena on the television music show Studio Mix from time to time. “The reason for me doing the stand-in was because he was in demand, doing gigs here and there. On the rarest occasion, I would stand in for Melanie Son as well. “Once it was me and him, and we had to cut to commercials. When we took that break, there were about four ads in there, and he was in all of those ads. After we came back from the ad break, I asked him if he realised how big of a deal he was. I said to him jokingly that unlike the rest of us, he didn’t have to say ‘we’ll be back after this’ because he wasn’t going anywhere as the ad break was him.” As their careers expanded, and they moved on to different radio stations, taking on different roles, their paths always crossed. “He left (Radio Metro) and chartered the way of breaking away from this great institution. Metro FM was large, the time we came on. He was the first to break away in 1996, I followed in 1997 to Kaya FM. “There was a common theme there, with us being the brave few to move from the mother ship and go start our own thing. We kept going, broke into management, and our paths met again at the SABC. Strategically, we were in charge of SABC radio at that time. At the core of it was a great friendship and the thing we loved so much.” Nothemba Madumo’s first experience of Mabena was at Radio Bop. “He came to Mmabatho while I was working at the station, and he joined while he was quite young still but really full of ambition and life. “He was a hit immediately because he had a drive and youthfulness that really excited everybody. He did very well with his shows, as he was a very likeable person.” Madumo was instrumental in Mabena’s love for jazz music. “He came to Joburg before I did, and we shared a lot of things together. The love of jazz - in fact, associating with me got him into loving jazz, and he became a huge Miles Davis fan.” She was also instrumental in getting him on the road, as she was the person with whom he started learning how to drive. The two had a close friendship over the years, moving to the same radio stations, working on television during their run as presenters for Woza Weekend and Studio Mix. “The last time I spoke to him was about two weeks ago, and we were having a big joke about something that was happening on his show on Power FM that morning. It’s still so hard to accept.” The Star