Johannesburg - The easing of lockdown restrictions in the country has seemingly caused a spike in heists, with at least three robberies carried out in separate towns in the country within 30 minutes on August 3. According to the latest police statistics, 164 robberies have been committed since the beginning of the year, which is a 10% drop from the 183 cases recorded last year. However, there are concerns that it might get out of control with the freeing up of the country’s economy from the lockdown. Anti-crime activist Yusuf Abramjee called on CIT companies to be vigilant and warned that robberies would get out of control if they didn't act. “Gauteng has been the hardest hit. "Under strict lockdown regulations movement was limited and so the robbers are coming back stronger now. "These are top syndicates who are well-equipped with top explosives,” he said. The cash-in-transit (CIT) industry and SA Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric) have formed the Cash-In-Transit Association of SA to further co-ordinate efforts to counter these violent attacks. The association would be made up of CIT companies, while other organisations with the same objective would be afforded an opportunity to come on board and participate. Sabric chief executive Nischal Mewalall said: “The CIT industry must be commended for its proactive approach and Sabric remains fully committed to supporting all initiatives to enable the fight against this scourge.” Sabric indicated that there had been a 5% decrease in CIT robberies this year when compared to the same period, January 1 to August 12, last year. Mewalall applauded the partnership the group has formed with CIT companies, government and law enforcement agencies. “Never before has collaboration been more essential. "These robberies have the potential to severely worsen our economy, which is already under severe pressure due to Covid-19 and we will continue to follow this synergistic, sustainable and collaborative model.” Fidelity Services Group recently recorded three cash-in-transit heists in the space of just over 30 minutes. The robberies took place in Flagstaff Eastern Cape, Delmas, Mpumalanga, and Kensington in Joburg, between 5.32pm and 6pm. The group's chief executive Wahl Bartmann conceded that their guards were under constant threat with the current economic challenges and opening of more activities in the country. “Fortunately the heavily-armed suspects were not able to get away with any money in each of the three separate ambush attacks. “Even though our crews were ambushed by heavily armed perpetrators in each of the incidents, no cash was lost and few injuries sustained, with the exception of the Delmas incident where the driver of our van sustained an injury and a member of our tactical support unit was fatally injured.” Bartmann said the perpetrators were not able to access the van and that the Fidelity air support was efficient in providing back up, while in the Eastern Cape the robbers managed to access the van, destroying all of the cash. However, no injuries were sustained in the explosion. The Star