By Editorial On August 7, 2004, the New National Party (NNP) announced its dissolution and merger with the ruling ANC. In a statement, the NNP insisted that individual members of the party would be encouraged to join the ANC in their respective localities, further adding that the NNP would in future contest elections under the banner of the ANC. Ironically, almost 17 years later the same ruling party that the NNP was so eager to align itself to has been rubbished over the conduct of some of its leaders who have been slated for lacking good moral standing when it comes to corruption. The party has been heavily criticised for no longer placing the interests of South Africans first since it assumed power in 1994. On Thursday, Twitter was abuzz with comments over the role of politicians, particularly former DA mayor in Joburg, Herman Mashaba. Many lauded him on the social media platform as perhaps the better alternative to the ones currently in government. One person went as far as to say “so far Mashaba is the only man capable of dragging me to the voting station” and that was all about putting South Africa first. In a recent article, constitutional expert Pierre De Vos stated: “Herman Mashaba could be the main beneficiary of South Africa’s shifting political landscape,” adding that because of the despondency of many South Africans, “it appears that there is a space that could be contested”, with someone able to “take the votes from both the ANC and the DA” and Mashaba could be the one. But that is nothing new. For the past decades, South Africans have preoccupied themselves with celebrating and vilifying politicians. Many have vowed to run to the polls as long as there is a better leader or political party. To their luck, there has always been a newly established organisation that presents itself as a better alternative. However, when the honeymoon period fizzles out, there is disillusionment. It has happened with the ANC, DA, Cope, EFF and Agang SA. The point is that heading to the local government elections and later the national elections, South Africans need to approach the polls with renewed minds. Who we put in power for the next five years will determine the life and future we want for ourselves and our children.