The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) has been found to have put up an illogical argument for refusing to absorb employees of the company that developed and operated the eNatis system. Tasima, the private entity in question, handed over the eNatis to the RTMC in 2017 after being ordered by the Constitutional Court to do so. The RTMC took over buildings, assets, information and intellectual property previously used by Tasima, but maintained that it had no duty to absorb the group’s employees. The apex court ruled against the RTMC on Tuesday in its steadfast position against absorbing 68 employees previously employed by Tasima. The RTMC had argued strongly against Tasima’s insistence that the employers should be transferred to the state agency under Section 197 of the Labour Relations Act. Section 197 forces an employer who takes over another business to absorb the employees as well. But the RTMC said it was exempted from this because it was not a business entity. It contended that it was just a State entity designed to perform a regulatory function. “It is not a business in the ordinary grammatical sense, nor in the extended sense because eNatis, in the hands of the RTMC, is not an economic entity but rather a regulatory facility required by statute,” argued the RTMC in court papers. “It is submitted that Section 197 was not intended to apply to a regulatory statutory body such as the RTMC.” But in her first Constitutional Court judgment, Justice Leona Theron found the RTMC’s grounds for refusing to absorb the employees unsustainable and illogical. Justice Theron found that the agency in fact acted as a commercial enterprise, and was not just a regulator. “It is apparent from the facts of this case that the RTMC does not act solely as a regulator.” She said the RTMC had a number of characteristics that qualified it to meet the stipulations of Section 197. “It is overseen by a chief executive officer who reports to a shareholders committee. It has a board, as well as salaried employees,” said Justice Theron. “It has a governance and business plan. It seeks to attract private-sector investment, and is concerned with the rates of return of its operations. “It generates revenue through the sale of services and invests funds to receive interest. It may make a profit. “The RTMC’s contention that the term business must be interpreted to exclude the RTMC because of its regulatory nature is divorced from its own reality,” Justice Theron concluded. The RTMC’s argument, if accepted, would undermine the applicability of the Labour Relations Act to State entities, she said. This had potential to threaten jobs. @BonganiNkosi87