Nambitha Ben-Mazwi is one of the dynamic South African faces that formed part of Beyoncé Knowles’ visual album, Black Is King. It was a bitter-sweet moment for the actress who could not share the moment with her agent, the late Moonyeenn Lee, who passed on a few weeks ago. “She wasn’t able to see the glory of this casting because she spearheaded it together with Wesley Mark. “The most amazing thing was the fact that I was hand picked. For me, God is always in control, I don’t think these are things that just happen, that was a role meant for me and everything that is to come is ready.” The 31-year-old holds several titles, including that of a Global Citizen African ambassador. In her role as an entrepreneur she launched her passion project #SheSpeaks by Lady Nam in 2018 on Women’s Day. “I am an advocate for dark skin magic. This is what I have put myself out there for, for the longest time. “I represent that and I am all about encouraging young girls to love their skin. I have been open and vulnerable in sharing my own story. When I was younger, I was teased for being dark skinned. My grandmother played a pivotal role in ensuring this incredible self-assurance and confidence that I have in my own magic.” It was through this that other women and girls started to open up to her about their struggles. “There was one girl who wanted to commit suicide because of the teasing and her poor self-image. I was very drawn to all these young girls who were messaging me and opening up. “It got to a point where I would still be responding to them hours later. “I wanted to package my project into a platform that could reach young girls and help them find their voice in all areas of their lives.” She also focuses on workshops on wealth creation for women and mentorship in the business of the arts. While she hasn’t been able to physically host these workshops because of the coronavirus pandemic, Ben-Mazwi has used the digital opportunities available to her by hosting live interviews on social media. Her guests have included actress and singer Nandi Madida and Miss Universe Zozibini Tunzi. “I always look at what everyone is talking about and what my followers are asking me. At the end of the day it is to make sure their lives are changed after a session. I have been on a break for a while with the sessions and I am coming back with a Women’s Day special with a guest. I wanted to focus on young girls who are starting to see themselves in us, and realising their dreams are valid.” As a continuation to the conversation around dark skin and being comfortable in it, the next interview will feature social media sensation Elsa Majimbo under the theme “Being unapologetic in your own skin”. “I couldn’t have thought of a better person who embraces herself and understands her magic. These talks are also ways for me to learn and grow.” While the actress is still revelling in the thrill of being part of Beyoncé’s visual album and musical film project, one of her favourite parts of the process was the exposure of African fashion. “I am a sucker for fashion. Clothes, style and fashion are an opportunity for you to express yourself and present yourself to the world. I loved the costumes. Trevor (Stuurman) did the most with the styling. He is a magician. “We immediately felt like queens in the costumes and beaded wigs. “It put us in the true essence of what we are doing, the story we are telling and how important it is. “We were adorned, honoured and celebrated. It did something to your soul for each one of us. I think everyone who was part of the cast and crew was hand picked for this because the vibe was so positive and enriching.” @mane_mpi