Johannesburg - Nia Orchid is a self-love and body positivity movement that aims to inspire women of all shapes and sizes. The modeling agency was started by Thando Nkosi and Jamila Buhlalu with an aim to change the perceptions of beauty in the media and entertainment industry. “In a business sense Nia Orchid Inc. is a South African modeling agency that focuses on plus-size talent exclusively. We supply talent for print and broadcast media, advertorials, editorials, brand campaigns, fashion shows etc. We are both fuller figured women and we wanted to see more women that look like us being represented in the mainstream,” said Buhlalu. She added that the plus-size industry was growing at a global scale but locally it was picking up slowly. “We want to see more campaigns that focus on women like us (instead of it being an afterthought). We wanted to change that one-dimensional view and believe starting an agency representing the various perspectives of plus sized talent is the best way to do that.” The movement started in 2014 as a blog with the hope to create a platform that celebrates plus-sized women. In 2020, the women decided to revive the vision with a more active and focused purpose by opening up a plus-size model management agency that launched last month. Nkosi comes from a family of curvy women but it took her a while before she could accept her own curves. “My body always developed quicker than most girls my age and that made me feel embarrassed and a little bit isolated. I was teased for my chubby body from when I was in nursery school all the way through to high school, so that created a bit of an internal war with my body and so the insecurities fueled my need to emotionally eat and then starve myself. “My perspective started to change when I hit my early/mid-twenties, when I discovered plus size models on blogs like Tumblr. That completely changed my mind and ultimately my life. The impact that seeing such representation had on me at 23-years-old was incredible. My relationship with my body is so much healthier now. I have learned to love her and take care of her like she has always deserved and it has become a beautiful journey.” Their aim is to eliminate all forms of discrimination and stereotyping against fuller figured women while still embracing their different shapes and sizes as well as encouraging a healthy lifestyle. “Nia Orchid Inc. doesn’t purely exist to challenge the unrealistic beauty standards in society, but we also focus internally on the well-being of the women that we represent by managing the quality of work that they are part of.” Buhlalu’s body positive story also took a while to fully come to be. “I've always been a "big" girl. I was usually amongst the tallest and heaviest girls in school and in social settings. I've always wanted to be in the entertainment industry and yet when I looked at magazines or watched TV I didn't really see women that looked like me out there. “A few years ago, I had lost an incredible amount of weight (for unhealthy reasons) and I was getting those compliments and some of that attention but I still wasn't satisfied, in my mind, I was still large and undesirable. Eventually I realised my issue wasn't a physical thing but it was a mental and emotional health issue. “I started my self-love journey and I began to see more women who look like me love their bodies and I thought "I could definitely do that". The more I loved myself, the more I became kinder to my body and comfortable in my own skin and because of that, I wanted to take care of my body naturally without being pushed or pressured by society's standards.” Nia Orchid exists to challenge the mainstream media, entertainment, fashion and beauty industries to become a lot more representative of the majority of South African women. “Ultimately we want Nia Orchid to be a legacy of self-love, of inclusivity, of womanism, of power and of the countless definitions and variations of beauty,” said Nkosi. The Star