Gym owners have described the five-month shutdown that has affected them since the start of lockdown as crippling to their business and workers. They argue that if tattoo parlours, restaurants and casinos were allowed to reopen, they should be too. Employees and fitness fanatics embarked on a national protest on Wednesday. During the lockdown, fitness fanatics were forced to resort to buying their own gym equipment or following fitness videos on YouTube to remain fit at home. While people are able to work out at home, gyms across the country remain closed after five months, at the cost of about 29000 jobs and at least 1100 gyms according to Fit SA, the association of health and fitness clubs. From midday until 2pm on Wednesday, more than 750 gyms countrywide embarked on a peaceful protest where protesters gathered at their local gyms with signs and drove around in a peaceful digital and driving demonstration, calling for the reopening of the industry. Owner of Edge Fitness Clubs and Fit SA spokesperson Grant Austin told The Star that the five-month closure had resulted in no work, no fitness for gym members and in some cases no pay for employees. “We feel gyms are a part of the solution because the comorbidities associated with Covid-19 include diabetes, hypertension and obesity, and gyms help solve all those problems,” he said. Austin added that the association had developed a 29-page safety protocol document with occupational hygienists that had been submitted to the government. However, he said that no feedback had been received. The owner of Shape Shifters Gym & Fitness Club in Port Elizabeth, Vivian Janse van Rensburg, said his fitness centre had generated no income for five months. “We’re still paying staff what we can, but rentals are behind and everything is behind. It’s very bad and if it goes on for the next few weeks there will be job losses.” Janse van Rensburg said he didn’t understand why gyms were still closed when some sports facilities had been opened. “With myself, my wife is a Type 1 diabetic, so we’ll do everything the government wants plus more, because I have to protect her, all my staff and all my members,” he said. A personal trainer for numerous gyms, Lwando Mnyaka, said he had become depressed because he hadn’t been able to make a living. “We pay rent to gyms and get payments through clients. If gyms are closed, we can’t get any money from clients,” he said. He added that he would continue training clients using social media platforms and live videos, but it was difficult to ensure his clients were doing the right movements. “Clients have been paying me, but it’s not the same. My sessions per month cost about R4000; now through online training I charge maybe R500 or R300 a month.” @Chulu_M