The key to an 80-year-old blind coronavirus survivor’s success in his fight with the deadly coronavirus was his faith and trust in his family. The confidence that Josephus Binita Jakavula, affectionately known as JB, had in his family and God propelled the survivor, who is also diabetic, to fight the invisible enemy. Jakavula, 80, from Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape, has been diabetic since 2006 and blind for more than 20 years. Prior to getting the virus, Jakavula did not leave his home in Motherwell and the family was already drinking immune-boosting smoothies. “Time went by and we realised that he wasn’t okay, and he would vomit. My mother called my brother who is a paramedic and he said it was the smoothies that were making him sick because there was too much sugar in the fruit. We were confused but we checked his blood sugar levels,” his eldest daughter Nosipho Jakavula-Vuke, 48, told The Star on Sunday. It turned out that Jakavula’s blood sugar levels had rocketed to about 27.9mmol/L on August 1. For people with diabetes, blood sugar level targets are about 4 to 7mmol/L before meals and under 9 or 8.5mmol/L after meals. The family rushed the retired school principal to Life Mercantile Hospital and he was admitted to a ward with other suspected case patients. On August 3, he was tested for Covid-19. “We became worried because he sounded confused but on Wednesday he called and told us that he had tested positive, but he refused to stay at the hospital because he was surrounded by other sickly patients,” she said. Jakavula said during his stint at hospital, his family checked on him constantly. “My family kept an eye on me and made me feel that I wasn’t alone. They kept on phoning me and encouraging me until the day came to be discharged,” he said. Jakavula was later discharged from hospital on August 3 and placed into isolation for about 21 days in his eldest daughter’s room. “When the day came they rushed home and got everything arranged for me to quarantine at home,” he said. The pensioner said it wasn’t difficult to self-isolate at home because his family understood the situation he was in. “The children would come to my door in the morning to greet and ask how I was doing. This was encouragement that I wasn’t alone in my sickness,” he said. Jakavula-Vuke added that her father’s recovery wasn’t easy because his blood sugar levels would fluctuate and there were times when he lacked energy, but the family consulted a doctor, also a relative. She said the family obtained a humidifier for her father to steam with Vicks and eucalyptus oil. “There wasn’t really anything that made me feel scared because I was in bed and there was nothing that told me, ‘I’m sick, I’m going to die.’ I knew that the family was taking care of me and I was getting calls of support from all directions,” he said. After Jakavula’s 21 days in isolation, the family decided to celebrate his health by taking him out to the beach for fresh air and to stretch his legs. Jakavula advised other elderly and diabetics to have confidence in their families when taking care of them. “Have confidence in your family and know that God is with you always to aid them. We did not sleep without praying, even my grandchildren would pray for grandpa,” he said. @Chulu_M