Johannesburg -  The chief executive of troubled Bheki Mlangeni District Hospital, Ruth Mabyana, has been reinstated following a precautionary suspension - much to the disappointment of staff members at the Soweto hospital. Mabyana was suspended after a psychiatric patient allegedly stabbed 85-year-old Kholisile Edwin Zazayokwe to death at the hospital in May. Acting Gauteng Health MEC Jacob Mamabolo confirmed on Thursday during a follow-up site visit to the hospital that the chief executive was reinstated despite not being cleared yet. “The CEO was on precautionary transfer which has lapsed and has had to come back. She is back, but not on merit. She is not properly cleared,” said Mamabolo. Staff members of the hospital, who spoke to The Star on condition of anonymity on Thursday said they were informed of her reinstatement on Wednesday and that the news was not well received. “We were not happy to hear she was back at work yesterday (Wednesday), and some people started to shout to show they are dissatisfied about this decision that was made, but it didn't work because we were immediately reprimanded,” a staff member said. The employees added that they were living in fear of being victimised by the hospital management. “We are very afraid of speaking up because we fear victimisation and scared of being fired,” the employee said. DA Gauteng health spokesperson MEC Jack Bloom said that Mabyana was Gauteng's worst hospital chief executive. “It is a mystery why Mabyana has not been removed for gross incompetence. I suspect she may have been protected because she knows things that could implicate others,” he said. Meanwhile, earlier this week, Mamabolo revealed in an oral reply to Bloom in the Gauteng Legislature that about 150 staff members had contracted coronavirus at the hospital. Following a two-hour meeting with management and organised labour, Mamabolo said the hospital lost one staff member due to Covid-19 and that 235 staff members had recovered. “The hospital currently has only seven staff members that are in isolation and not at work as a result of the Covid-19 infections. When you look at that, it actually provides a very good picture because it means the hospital is not impacted by rates of infections relating to Covid-19,” he said. One of the staff members who survived Covid-19 said she initially tested negative while she was on leave but contracted it after she returned to work. “I came back to work and got infected here. The rule is that after testing, you must quarantine, but here, even after testing positive, people would come back,” she said. Mamabolo added that issues raised by management included dissatisfaction of staff about appointments. “There are those who came because of nepotism and connections. Some of us want to speak out, but some others know how they came in so they are not willing to do that because they will be compromised,” an employee said. Mamabolo described the challenges of management and leadership issues as historical and deep. “This is one of the hospitals I had committed myself to come back to, cause when I was here, it was clear that there were deep, deep challenges in the hospital,” the acting MEC said. The Star