Johannesburg- Tsie Motsa rushed to the hospital with a nagging cough, and suspected that he had contracted Covid-19. Instead of getting assistance from medical staff at Netcare Krugersdorp, he was instead accused of faking his cough. “The nurse told me that my cough was fake and was so rude, like I was not in the room. The nurse continued with her negative comments about me faking having difficulty breathing, and said she didn’t understand why I was put on oxygen by ambulance crews,” Motsa said. “I told her that I didn’t complain about having difficulty breathing but only painful coughing accompanied by a burning sensation, so the nurse ignored me.” Netcare’s managing director for the hospital division, Jacques du Plessis, confirmed that Motsa had complained of neglect by a nurse. “We were appalled at what had transpired and wish to assure Mr Motsa that the necessary action has been taken to address her behaviour,” he said. Motsa said while the staffer said he was faking his illness, he had to insist on a Covid-19 test being conducted. “They did the Covid-19 test and I was discharged from the hospital after six hours. They never gave me anything to deal with my cough,” he said. He went to another hospital, where he was treated for the cough. Getting his Covid-19 results also proved to be difficult. When he hadn’t received his results six days after the test, he called the hospital and discovered he had tested positive. “I was told that the results were ready the day after the test but no one called me. They said my phone was on voicemail, but why didn’t they call me again or call my next of kin? This means that I have exposed my wife and four children to the virus,” he said. He said his children were not displaying symptoms of the virus but his wife was. Du Plessis confirmed that Motsa’s results weren’t given to him because he didn’t answer his phone. He said: “At 1pm on July 23, when the Covid-19 results had become available from the independent laboratory the doctor personally contacted Mr Motsa. “However, he had to leave a voicemail message asking Mr Motsa to contact the hospital as the call was not answered. “It has since been ascertained that the details held by the hospital for Mr Motsa were out of date. The reception manager as well as the unit manager of the emergency department have subsequently been in contact with Mr Motsa via email and his contact details have now been updated.” But Motsa said it was strange that they were able to update his new medical aid details but not his contact numbers. “The reception managed to change my medical aid details because I just moved to a new one. They didn’t need me to help me with that, but they couldn’t care about my number. Netcare only cares about money.” Du Plessis said the hospital management had apologised to Motsa. The Star