Johannesburg - Blessing Ngobeni uses art to express his opinion. “It is the best way for me to influence or engage in global matters that affect me and the world I live in.” His solo exhibition, “Chaotic Pleasure”, is now showing at the Standard Bank Gallery. “Art enables me to narrate stories of the past, historical events that affect the present life of a black child. I am able to visualise the future life of the black child through art.” The works in his exhibition are made in response to everything he sees in Africa today. “The ‘Chaotic Pleasure’ I talk about is the excitement and hope for a better future, and it’s the protests and the riots that take place when those elected into power fail to deliver. It’s the result of labouring and producing African resources, but never being able to enjoy those resources ourselves. It’s the beauty of the African landscape and the lingering effects of colonisation.” Ngobeni is the 2020 Young Artist award winner for visual arts. He wants people to experience the desire to rewrite history. “I want them to experience that desire from our perspective. I hope for people to experience the change of times and possibilities to rebuild the dignity of the black child.” Since his first solo exhibition at Everard Read’s Circa gallery in 2016, titled “Song of Chicotte”, Ngobeni has continued to strengthen his oeuvre by consistently delivering projects that present a combination of aesthetic and socio-political critical dialogues. His artistry - across the mediums of collage on canvas, stainless-steel sculptures, and animated videos, as well as his efforts to help train and provide opportunities for young South African artists through the Blessing Ngobeni Art Prize - played a significant role in both his nomination and winning of this award. Some of the most important lessons he has learnt over the years include being consistent in pushing through with his career, uplifting and providing opportunities for others, being humble and showing respect. “I’ve also learned that the process of learning is not only cultivated through Western methods,” he said. Ngobeni is inspired by the likes of Dumile Feni, Gerald Sikoto and Jean-Michel Basquiat. His journey into the art world started while he was in prison. “I used to do portraits for the inmates, that’s where my love for art started growing. I came across an art book written by Professor Chabani Manganyi, based on Gerald Sikoto in exile, and that gave me hope and inspiration in which I imagined myself being an artist.” The hosting of this exhibition sees Ngobeni join a long line of trailblazers who have been awarded the Standard Bank Young Artist Award for visual art over the years, including Gabrielle Goliath, Helen Sebidi, Kemang wa Lehulere, Berni Searle, Tommy Motswai, William Kentridge, and more. The Star