Johannesburg - Police officers and other public servants are among illegitimate beneficiaries of more than 100 RDP houses in Clayville in Ekurhuleni and Tembisa. This is according to Kedibone Diale, chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Cogta and Human Settlements in Gauteng. The houses are said to be occupied by financially stable individuals, who have gone on to upgrade their houses with tiles and security doors. Diale said the portfolio committee on Cogta made these findings during their recent unannounced oversight visit to government housing developments in the Ekurhuleni and City of Johannesburg regions. “The committee made shocking discoveries of corruption and mismanagement of government resources; and is considering laying criminal charges against officials who were managing these two housing developments projects.” The houses are in Clayville Ward 1 and in Ward 92 in Tembisa. Diale indicated that her office has been overwhelmed with calls from whistle-blowers on selling of government subsidy houses. According to the chairperson, some occupants in Extension 71 were lawfully allocated the houses, as they moved in from different informal settlements. “The committee disappointingly learnt that from 2017, government officials allegedly sold houses to desperate South Africans in need of shelter, despite these people being on the waiting list for government houses. “Out of desperation, the residents bought these houses and have been occupying them illegally as no title deeds were issued.” Asked to provide further clarity on government officials fingered in the sale of the houses, Diale said: “At this stage no one has been proven guilty. Some residents have provided details of the government officials working within the Cogta department. Unfortunately at this stage all these are allegations and investigations are under way.” The chairperson explained that a feedback from Cogta MEC Lebogang Maile was due today. “We did raise these issues with the MEC’s office and he assured us he is on top of it,” she said. “The committee will lay criminal charges against all public officials involved in these unlawful processes.” Diale added that the committee will be engaging the Safety Portfolio Committee to provide security while the government investigates the matter. “The residents of Extension 45 Ward 1 have recently experienced intimidation and threats of eviction from various sources all outside of the lawful processes of the department.” The City of Joburg and Gauteng Provincial Government recently announced that 1500 patrollers are set to be deployed to assist Metro police with land invasions issues. Joburg Mayor Geoff Makhubo said: “I am glad that we are working together with the Gauteng province to push back these land-grabbing syndicates. We need to discourage the illegal occupation of land.” IOL