By Penny Lebyne At the age of 13 when I moved to Soweto to start my schooling at Thaba-Jabula Secondary School in Klipspruit, I discovered Radio Bop and Radio Metro at the same time The Sowetan, The Star, Drum magazine, True Love, Pace, Tribute, City Press, and Sunday Times became my source of information and entertainment. I attributed my love for the broadcast and print media to my father who purchased newspapers and my mom who adored magazines. I read newspapers and magazines, watched TV and listened to the radio. I was so good at general knowledge I won a prize on a TV show. Then, I had set my mind on being as good as everyone I read about and saw on TV. Bob Mabena and his then-wife Zandile (Zan) Nzalo were my ultimate couple goal. When I met Zan and told her I would be a broadcast star just like her, she introduced me to Mabena. I was in “Penny heaven” with some of my dreams coming true at the age of 18. Zandile Nzalo and Shado Twala were my benchmarks for being sassy and serious on radio and with a touch of Tich and Bob, I was set to become the star I believed I was. At The Voice of Soweto,  I sharpened my skills. I recall boldly asking Zan to be my mentor, and she obliged. At the time, I had just joined M-Net to start Channel O. My days were preoccupied with Zandile’s radio alter ego Zanex Zan. She was the “It Girl” and I was determined to follow suit. It didn’t hurt that she was married to Bob. That is how I gained a big sister and a big brother. Being close to them meant I could shadow them. I finally got to the big stage at Radio Metro and landed a TV show on SABC 1, both before my 22nd birthday. Bob and Zan represented the breed of achievers barely out of their twenties. Zan had hitched-hiked from Eswatini to Mmabatho in the North West. Bob, on the other hand, began his journey to stardom with a bag of vinyl and toiletries, from Atteridgeville to Mmabatho. In my case, I was determined to catch a taxi from Soweto to fulfil my dream and nothing was going to stop me. When my phone rang on one Monday, I heard Zan saying: “Penny, Bob is late.” I knew I had to rise to the occasion of a little sister to Zan and Napadi to Bob. Napadi is a girl who grows up among boys and somehow her masculine energy is a little stronger. I’ve been on duty since and I am not missing a beat because Bob, "The Jammer", won’t let me. He was love and generosity personified. Mel (Melanie Bala) and Bob are my Studio Mix family. Last year was everything I wanted for them. He did so much for me when he said to me during the xenophobic attacks: “Evil prevails when good people do nothing. You need to go to the camp where the displaced people from Zimbabwe are, since you have direct understanding and your children’s heritage is of that nation. Go so you can account genuinely on air.” I went. Uncle Bob, as I called him, is gone. He gave many people a break. He demanded nothing in return. He loved South Africa. Writing this tribute is a first attempt at saying to Mabena, The Jammer: “I am ready and have been practising all along. Thank you for the dream so clear. The youth of South Africa are blessed to have you as a guardian angel. Your children are your blueprints as they had the joy of watching you do what you love every day. We were all lucky to have lived in your era. Farewell, my God-given big brother." Lebyane is a radio personality, TV presenter and activist.