By Editorial In his address to the nation on Wednesday evening, President Cyril Ramaphosa urged South Africans and their families to use Heritage Day on September 24 as a time of reflection on the hard journey travelled thus far and “to remember those who have lost their lives ...”. The president further stated that the “demand for hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen and other essential medical requirements has also reduced steadily”. He applauded the country for successfully waving off the storm while protecting the public health care system from being crippled – an achievement he said has been recognised by the World Health Organization. This feat is encouraging. But, even with the successes that have been highlighted, one can’t help but reflect on the devastating emotional, physical and financial impact the Covid-19 pandemic has had on the lives of many people in this country and across the world. There is no doubt that long after the pandemic has ended, life will never be the same. The loss experienced is too unbearable. More unbearable, however, has been the fact that during one of the most testing times in the world, there are still people who have been bold enough to steal and cheat many vulnerable communities over personal protective equipment (PPE). The hiking of PPE prices, collusion involving government officials, individuals and large corporates in relation to tender allocations, as well as the theft of food parcels meant for hungry children, men and women will always be an unforgivable sin. It is unfathomable how we, as a society, have left acts of corruption in the country to reach untold heights. It has become clear that South Africans cannot afford any further cases of malfeasance to go unabated. Although there is no proof that hiking prices of PPEs or the stealing of food parcels has led a handful of deaths in the country, the manner in which people wreak havoc with the country’s purse needs to end. Yes, we may have weathered the Covid-storm, but we have a long way to go in withstanding other societal ills. We still have a corruption storm that we must conquer if we are to create a peaceful and prosperous country for generations to come. The Star