The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) has deported a senior municipal manager from the Rand West City Local Municipality (RWCLM) for contravening immigration laws. Zivanai Katikiti, a manager for financial control and reporting at the RWCLM was deported to Zimbabwe through the Beit Bridge port of entry in Limpopo on Wednesday afternoon. DHA spokesperson Siya Qoza said that the department’s records showed that Katikiti entered the country in May 2015. However, the senior official hadn’t applied for a work or residence permit. “Mr Katikiti is a prohibited person who was found in possession of a fraudulent permit and other documents,” Qoza said. The deportation came after he was arrested for contravening immigration laws on September 3, appeared in court the following day and remained in custody until the confirmation of his deportation in court on Tuesday, according to the DHA. The department initiated investigations into Katikiti after The Sowetan newspaper sent the DHA a media enquiry. Home Affairs Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi said an internal investigation into the origins of the documents was launched and that the investigation would also cover Katikiti’s employment with RWCLM. The Star sent questions to RWCLM spokesperson Phillip Montshiwa on Thursday  morning, who said he would revert back as soon as he had a response from the municipality’s accounting officer. However, Montshiwa was not able to offer a response before publication. Alwyn van Tonder, DA councillor and caucus leader in the Randfontein district, said he had worked with Katikiti on several occasions and praised him for his professionalism. “From the point of view as a person, I think he was a very professional person and he was in my view good at the position he was appointed to be in,” he said. Van Tonder, however, added that if it was proved Katikiti had indeed broken the law by entering the country illegally, then the law should take its course. Katikiti is not the first senior government official to be arrested for contravening immigration laws. Mpumalanga Department of Human Settlement head of department (HOD) Keboni Masange was arrested on September 1 after he was found contravening the law by acquiring three IDs through misrepresentation. According to the department, Masange first entered South Africa in October 1995 using a Zimbabwean passport and in June 1996 he applied for an ID by misrepresenting certain material facts. In May 1997, the HOD was issued a certificate for SADC exemption despite not meeting the criteria. A few days before he was issued the certificate, Masange applied for a second ID and again misrepresented material facts. “After receiving the exemption certificate, Masange again applied for the third and current ID as an exempted foreigner from Zimbabwe,” the department said. Masange appeared in court on September 3 and was released on a warning. The department filed papers to oppose his release and the matter is scheduled to be heard on November 2. @Chulu_M The Star