Just over a week after pausing the Covid-19 vaccine trials after a patient fell ill, the Wits and Oxford universities’ research is back on. The trials have been resumed in all the countries where they are being conducted including the UK, the US and Brazil. According to Professor Shabir Madhi, executive director of the Vaccines and Infectious Diseases Analytics Research Unit (Vida), who leads the Ox1nCov19 trial locally, the SA Health Products Regulatory Authority and local ethics committees this week approved the resumption of trials. A spokesperson for the University of Oxford said the UK’s independent review process had concluded and, following the recommendations of both the independent safety review committee and the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, the trials would recommence. Madhi said: “The South African study is overseen by the same independent data and safety monitoring committee as in the UK, so all sites in South Africa paused vaccination. The SA Health Products Regulatory Authority and Wits University ethics committees have now approved resuming vaccination, and we have done so.” Globally, 18 000 individuals have received study vaccines as part of this trial. In large trials such as this, it is expected that some participants will become unwell and every case has to be carefully evaluated to ensure careful assessment of safety. He said stopping the trials was procedural and showed their safety. “Pausing vaccination to review safety is evidence of the application of sound clinical practice and demonstrates the rigour of the independent oversight process under which this trial is being conducted. Assessing the safety of the vaccine is the reason why studies such as these are essential in South Africa, before there is widespread use of the vaccine,” said Madhi. The success of a vaccine is being eagerly awaited. In a new Ipsos survey of nearly 20 000 adults with online access from 27 countries on behalf of the World Economic Forum, 74% said they would get a vaccine for Covid-19 if it were available. About 64% of South Africans said they would get the vaccine if it were available. Globally, almost 59% don’t expect this will be an option before the end of the year. Again, 63% of South Africans agree that the speculation on the early success of a vaccine is overly optimistic. Globally, 56% of the participants said they would not take the vaccine because they worried about side effects , while 29% doubted its effectiveness. The Star