Johannesburg - There was drama at the court appearance of two police officers accused of killing Eldorado teenager Nathaniel Julies. Angry EFF supporters scuffled with cops when they were refused entry into the Protea Magistrate’s Court where Sergeant Simon Ndyalvane and Constable Caylene Whiteboy appeared for a hearing on Monday. The red berets wanted to be allowed into the court room but police had to enforce Covid-19 regulations which permitted only 50 people. EFF MP Kenny Motsamai said that the party had decided to attend the hearing because they wanted to offer support to the Eldorado Park community and make them feel valued like all citizens. Motsamai told The Star that police officers were more lenient with white people than blacks. “I was pushed by a police officer who told me that this was not an EFF gathering, a decision which didn’t sit well with other members and myself, but we managed to resolve it. “We don’t like how women and children are being killed in the country. We could see that the magistrate also did not condone their actions, hence they were denied bail yesterday (Monday)  (sic),” said Motsamai. The two officers were apprehended on Friday by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate. They were charged with murder, discharging of a firearm in a public place, being in possession of prohibited ammunition and defeating the ends of justice. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said the officers faced a Schedule 6 offence and that the NPA will oppose bail when they make their second court appearance on September 10. “The State alleges that the police officers used ammunition that is prohibited by the law and that they attempted to discard evidence.” Nathaniel, who suffered from Down syndrome, was gunned down last Wednesday and died later in hospital. Motsamai refused to be drawn into circulating claims from some community members suggesting that “coloured lives do not matter”. “Look, first of all we do not want to politicise the whole matter. Like any other citizens, we are pained by what has happened to the family and community at large. “As the EFF, we want justice to prevail and we want to see those who are guilty being taken to jail because no one deserve to die like that,” he said. Nathaniel’s death has sparked outrage among the Eldorado Park community, with members clashing with law enforcement agencies, resulting in eight people being injured. Two were believed to be police members and one a JMPD officer. More than 50 residents made their way to the magistrate’s court yesterday, with placards conveying messages of support for the teenager’s family. Family spokesperson Liesel Ponsonby said they were pleased with the court’s decision to remand the suspects in custody. “We feel that it’s a right decision and the community has welcomed the decision. We had everyone chanting and celebrating yesterday when they heard the news. “Obviously, the family is still grieving. We will now focus on giving Nathaniel a dignified funeral, before focusing on the next court date,” she added. The Star