PRETORIA, September 31 (ANA) – A 31-year-old man was arrested in Johannesburg after he opened a false case of car hijacking, Johannesburg central spokesperson of the South African Police Service Captain Xoli Mbele said on Monday. “Detectives arrested a 31-year-old male for perjury at Meadowlands on the 18th of September 2020. It is alleged that the suspect opened a false car hijacking (case) at Johannesburg Central police station on the 15th of June 2020,” said Mbele. He said the Johannesburg man claimed that he was stopped by police officers driving a white Volkswagen Golf 7 with blue lights on, while he was driving his green Volkswagen Jetta at the corner of Main Reef Road and Marshall Street. “He also elaborated further that the police were joined by another police (officers) driving a white Quantum. They told him that his car registration does not correspond with a colour of (the) car. They handcuffed and put him inside the Quantum. They drove off with him and he was dropped off at Bram Fischer (Drive). He fabricated his whole story,” said Mbele. “Preliminary investigations revealed that the vehicle was sold by his mother to bail him in custody on the 4th of May 2020. His mother sold the car for R24,000 to a 32-year-old male residing in Mofolo. Investigation is under way and (the) suspect is appearing today, the 21st of September 2020 in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court.” In February, a plan to get rid of his car backfired on a Durban businessman who apparently colluded with a police officer and his friend to stage a “hijacking” so he could claim from his insurance company. The Tribune reported that the 47-year-old from Glenwood no longer wanted the Ford Mustang GT but feared he would make a loss if he sold it. He then conspired with his mechanic friend and an officer from Newlands East Police Station to stage a hijacking, crash and fire shots at the R1-million (about US$60,000) car. The Mustang was a write-off, the air bags exploded and it was riddled with bullet holes after the “hijacking”, which took place on December 19, in Newlands East. But the insurance company became suspicious when the owner filed the claim. Amid investigation by the Hawks, the owner made a new statement to the police, in which he admitted the hijacking had been planned. –  African News Agency (ANA); Editing by Yaron Blecher  