Johannesburg - City of Joburg recently launched the Welcome2Joburg - A City Reimagined’ as a precursor to welcome back visitors to the city during September. The start of spring in September is a month of celebration - including Tourism Month, Heritage Day and Arbour Day. Every special day is a chance to remind residents and potential visitors of Joburg’s appeal as an exciting, vibrant and diverse all-year-round destination for business and leisure. “With the recent relaunch of ‘Welcome2Joburg - A City Reimagined’ campaign in August as a precursor to welcome back visitors to the city during September, the Tourism Unit will use various platforms and activities to promote tourism activities in the city and surroundings,” said Thandubuhle Mgudlwa, director of Joburg Tourism. With the country and the world negotiating its way through virtual experiences, meetings and events, it’s thrilling news that sites and attractions are starting to open up to real-life visitors again - albeit with strict physical distancing and health protocols in place, he said. Since there are no public events during this time, the Tourism Unit is seeking to partner with local stakeholders to drive visitors to the operating products by promoting them under the Welcome2Joburg campaign. “Aside from a fabulous programme of events, we also have hotels throughout the city participating through special accommodation packages and food and beverage promotions, all of which go in to entrenching Joburg as a sophisticated, diverse and cosmopolitan brand,” he added. While never losing sight of our global marketing objectives and the allure of overseas travel, it’s also important to take time out to enjoy being a tourist in our own backyard and to discover how rich our country is in terms of colourful historical, cultural and lifestyle experiences. Welcome2Joburg - A City Reimagined. Running on its social media platforms, the campaign takes potential visitors on a journey of exploring the city’s diverse offerings - ranging from outdoor activities, leisure, and nightlife to heritage, lifestyle, its world-class education and business facilities and infrastructure. Clearly, Joburg remains a destination to be explored and enjoyed,” said Lloyd Phillips, member of the mayoral committee for economic development. Known as the melting pot of Africa, Joburg’s diversity is palpable in its atmosphere and visible on the friendly faces of its people, ever ready to greet visitors in a variety of indigenous languages, including “kasie taal”, he said. Visit Twitter (@visitjoburg) and Facebook and https://www.facebook.com/VisitJoburg/videos/299209221138418 The Star