By Editorial Saturday September 12 will mark 43 years since anti-apartheid activist Steve Biko died in a prison cell on September 12, 1977. Days before his death, he had been severely tortured by security forces. Over the years, South Africans have unapologetically celebrated Biko’s legacy through the “Black Consciousness” movement. He notably said: “The blacks are tired of standing at the touchlines to witness a game that they should be playing. They want to do things for themselves and all by themselves.” In another quote, he said: “Merely by describing yourself as black you have started on a road towards emancipation, you have committed yourself to fight against all forces that seek to use your blackness as a stamp that marks you out as a subservient being.” It is no wonder black South Africans have continued to heed Biko’s call by advocating that the rights of every black child and every adult be upheld. This has been evident in the manner in which South Africans have united against racism, particularly in showing their dissatisfaction with the natural hair debacle involving Clicks and a TRESemmé hair product. The advert published by Clicks portrayed black natural hair as “dry, damaged, and frizzy”, while white natural hair was depicted as “normal”. This campaign is precisely what Biko was against. But while many seek to continue Biko’s legacy and to call out racists who seek to continue the oppression, it is also important to assess how we as South Africans deal with our existential angst. The right to protest and the right to freedom of speech is enshrined in the country’s Constitution but we ought to guard against the culture of trashing, damaging property and seemingly inciting violence as we have seen in the protests against the ad. Biko said: “I’ve devoted my life to see equality for blacks, and at the same time I’ve denied the needs of my family. Please understand that I take these actions not out of selfishness or arrogance, but to preserve a South Africa worth living in for blacks and whites.” May we all indeed make this a country worth living in by not backing down in our fight against white supremacy that existed in the past, but at the same time not tarnishing the legacy we want to create for future generations. The Star