Esmeralda Sayagues, from Pretoria, says the Qatar staff were rude and arrogant as she tried to board a repatriation flight to South Africa last month. On Wednesday, August 26, I began a 60-hour journey back home to Pretoria. I had been in Buenos Aires for a year on a scholarship completing a Master’s degree in human rights when the pandemic struck, and Argentina closed its airports. I have permanent residence in South Africa and an Uruguayan passport, so my itinerary home was Buenos Aires to Montevideo by ferry – Air Europa to Madrid – Qatar Airways to Doha and Johannesburg. Before my departure, Ms Sharon Solomon at the South African embassy in Buenos Aires guided me in obtaining all the necessary information and documents regarding repatriation. She was helpful and knowledgeable. The embassy gave me a laissez-passer (travel document) letter signed by Ambassador Phumelele Gwala which, along with my South African permanent residence and ID, were the documents needed for repatriation. I arrived in Madrid at 5am on Thursday, August 27. When Qatar check-in opened at 11.30am, the Qatar Airways supervisor, Mr Nobel Gonzalez Horbanero, said I could not board the flight to Doha because I needed a letter signed by Mrs Mdledle from Dirco. The laissez-passer was insufficient, he said. This was three-and-a-half hours before departure. The Qatar staff were rude and arrogant, particularly Mr Horbanero, who obviously relished exercising his power over a young woman. Meanwhile, my mother in Pretoria got hold of Mr Alfred Brown, the deputy director of consular services for Europe and the Americas, at Dirco. He told me over email that Qatar Airways was wrong. My documents were enough. Embassies do not give a laissez-passer before Dirco approves it. Mr Horbanero refused to look at Mr Brown’s email on my phone, saying Mr Brown should send the email to the Qatar office in Johannesburg. I demanded the email address for South Africa. Mr Horbanero relented and I passed it on to Mr Brown. Ninety minutes to departure, Mr Brown phoned and emailed Qatar Airways Johannesburg confirming I should be allowed to board. Mr Horbanero said he too received these emails and yet he still refused to let me board because Mrs Mdledle’s signature was not attached, although she was cc’d on the emails. Thirty minutes to departure, I gave up and sat down on my luggage near tears. Suddenly, Mr Horbanero tells me I can check in and must then run to the gate. I sprint through the enormous airport. I arrive at the gate. Boarding has not even started. Throughout this ordeal, Qatar Airways staff treated me like I was a nuisance to get rid of, and yet, they were wrong and the embassies were right. Carolyn Monchouguy, Qatar’s manager for corporate communications, responds: “Qatar Airways does not tolerate the behaviour of staff as mentioned by Ms Sayagues in regards to the Madrid Airport services manager and this has been thoroughly investigated. We do not believe there was any intention for rudeness, but we can understand as the customer was upset that she could not board the flight. “Qatar Airways is operating special repatriation flights to and from Johannesburg and working in close contact with the South African authorities to accept only eligible passengers that can enter South Africa during the pandemic while their borders remain closed to international travellers. “In the case of Ms Esmeralda Sayagues, we had a request from ZA authorities to not accept at that time embassy letters to board the flight. Following the appropriate approvals from the ZA authorities, the staff at Madrid airport were then able to board Ms Sayagues onto the flight.” The Star