Johannesburg  - The wheels of justice are turning slowly to serve a former Ekurhuleni metro police superintendent found guilty of raping two Soweto children. Adam Cummings’s sentencing was again postponed at the South Gauteng High Court, Johannesburg on Wednesday. His co-accused Tebogo Johanna Maregele, a 22-year-old whom he paid to lure and kidnap young girls for him, sat next to him in the dock, also waiting to hear her sentence. Cummings was found guilty of raping two girls in 2015, who were 9 and 15 years old. He was found guilty on a count of human trafficking, for luring the unsuspecting children on false pretenses. Maregele was found guilty of being an accomplice in the rape of the 9-year-old and on counts of sexual exploitation of children, and human trafficking. Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng read the pair their guilty verdict in May last year. A year and four months since they were convicted, their sentencing was highly expected. But State and defence lawyers came before Judge Mokgoatlheng having already reached an agreement that the matter be postponed to next month. Prosecutor Nonkululeko Serepo explained to the court that the postponement was necessary because defence lawyers still did not have all the transcripts they needed. In June, the case was postponed for the same reason. Serepo explained at the time that lawyers needed the transcripts to prepare for arguing for factors that should mitigate the sentence. She explained that the lawyers have not been provided all the scripts. A written judgment was one of transcripts yet to be handed over, she said. A full set of transcripts had to include all the testimonies and arguments that were submitted during the marathon trial of the pair. Cummings had a new lawyer, necessitating the need for transcripts. Defence lawyers hoped the transcripts would help them work out arguments strong enough to convince Judge Mokgoatlheng to deviate from the set minimum sentences. Cummings faced the possibility of life imprisonment, as per prescribed minimum sentence in child rapes. The 9-year-old was lured by Maregele in Moroka, Soweto. Cummings bought food for the child and with Maregele, drove her to a secluded area where Cummings raped her, while Maregele assisted him to subdue her. After the ordeal, the child was given R50 as a bribe to silence her. Despite being threatened with murder, the child told her mother. The 15-year-old was raped by Cummings on two occasions: both in a secluded veld in Soweto. Cummings claimed she was his girlfriend and he had consensual sex with her. But the child emerged as a reliable witness before Judge Mokgoatlheng. She testified that Cummings raped her twice. @BonganiNkosi87 The Star