Johannesburg - Malome Vector’s deep love for his language and culture inspired him to make music about it. “I love Sesotho and for me to rap in my mother tongue allows me to outshine even myself. A lot of people rap in English. I don’t want to be just anybody who raps, I want to be different. Rapping in Sesotho is not common in South Africa. I don’t know of a mainstream Sesotho rapper from here.” The Maseru-born songwriter, whose real name is Bokang Moleli, has had a passion for music since he was young. He carried around a song book filled with his own lyrics while he was a teenager. “I can say it is the only thing I can do extremely well. I had to choose it,” he says. His stage name Malome Vector comes from an old nickname his friend used to call him in primary school. “I don’t know why he would call me Malome (uncle), but everybody then started doing the same and it just grew from there. Everywhere I would go and the people I would meet would call me Malome. So when I finally decided on a name I just added my other name Vector to it.” He moved to South Africa in January to make sure his music received the attention it deserved. “Back at home we do not have a lot of platforms apart from one TV station and one radio station (and a few community radio stations). I want to make it big and go worldwide. There are more opportunities here.” The 28-year-old signed with Ambitiouz Entertainment in November. His first single with the stable is Dumelang, a greeting in Sesotho and his way of introducing himself to local music lovers. “I want people who don’t know me to know who I am. I speak about where I am from, why I am here in Jozi and just to explain how I do things musically and personally.” The song features Blaq Diamond, a duo that has also embraced their own isiZulu culture in their music. “I really like people who rap in their own language. They impress their own culture into their music, and I wanted people back home in Lesotho to also see that. I have been working with them since I arrived.” The video showcases Sesotho, isiZulu and Setswana cultures. He is working on what he calls a future “album of the year”, which he hopes will be released before the end of this year. Since lockdown, Moleli has been improving his writing, beat and rap skills: “I have been working very hard to improve all the skills I have, and penned most of my songs for this coming album during that time.” While his sound lends itself to contemporary Sesotho music with some elements of afro pop, the producer does not want to be boxed into a genre but rather wants people to see the originality and versatility in his music. He gets a lot of inspiration from the people he grew up listening to, like the late HHP and other Sesotho musicians like Ntate Stunna. “I want them to see the creativity and get something they have never received before. It doesn’t make sense to listen to the same thing again. I keep changing my sound all the time while still rapping in Sesotho. They can look forward to that versatility.” The Star