Johannesburg - A man who testified that he fatally stabbed his girlfriend in self-defence has been acquitted of the murder charge. Siphamandla Nicholas Mdlalose from Amersfoort in Mpumalanga maintained during the trial at the Middelburg High Court that he stabbed Sixolile Lindi Mncube several times with a screwdriver as she launched a persistent and “ferocious” attack on him. Acting Judge Hein Brauckmann heard that the head wound that claimed Mncube’s life was inflicted during a fight that unfolded in the dark. There was a power outage at Mdlalose’s residence that fateful night of September 9, 2013, it emerged as a common fact in the court. Mdlalose admitted to fatally stabbing his lover at his parental home, but pleaded not guilty on an explanation of self-defence. His version of events, which Judge Brauckmann found the state to have failed to dispute, was that Mncube started squabbling with him and suddenly slapped him when he slept. He testified that he got dressed and left the bedroom, only for Mncube to follow him to the sofa to assault him again. Judge Brauckmann heard that Mncube took a screwdriver used to lock Mdlalose’s room door and tried to stab her lover. Mdlalose told the court that after “disarming” her, she attacked him further by throwing everything she found in the dark room at him. He said Mncube even hit him with a broken jar and kicked him when he fell down. Mdlalose told the court that he stabbed the deceased in self-defence as she was overpowering him. He stabbed her several times but she would not stop attacking him, he testified. After Mncube became unresponsive he called his sister, Beatrice Maseko, to assist him by calling an ambulance. Mdlalose went along with the ambulance that took Mncube to the hospital in which she died. Police arrested him at the hospital and he later got bail. The state’s case against Mdlalose fell through due to the failure of the prosecution to challenge his version of events. “In all, his version was not really attacked at all,” Judge Brauckmann said in a ruling delivered on Thursday last week. Neither did prosecutor Ashwin Poodhun submit any evidence rebuffing Mdlalose’s self-defence claim, the judge found. “It is with regret that I have to find that the state failed to appropriately cross-examine Mdlalose,” he said. “Mdlalose was allowed to appear to be a far better witness than he actually was because of the fact that his version was not really tested during cross examination. I had to keep tight reins on myself not to become too involved as to appear biased during the trial,” Judge Brauckmann added. Nothing in the state’s case rattled Mdlalose’s version. “No evidence in the state’s case rebuts the version that he acted in self-defence. The state failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt and (he) must be found not guilty and acquitted,” Judge Brauckmann said. He said though he tended to not believe Mdlalose’s version, he was bound to acquit him because he could not draw any other inference from the state’s arguments. @BonganiNkosi87 The Star