By Themba Sono One major weakness of President Jacob Zuma was that he lacked education and its qualities. But an even greater malady was his aversion to reading. Perhaps the two are related: one cannot be inclined to read when one is unlettered. On that score, we may perhaps forgive Zuma’s delinquency, and thus, go easy on him even though on that score, he should not have been a president. So, what would be the excuse for President Cyril Ramaphosa’s blunders since he’s educated and he is, thus, undoubtedly lettered? Generally, lettered persons are more reflective of their decisions than the hoi polloi. So how come Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Ngcakula decided to fly to Zimbabwe in an SANDF plane with ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule and his entourage as if Ramaphosa was not in the loop? Normally, Cabinet ministers do not just decide to take a plane and fly to a foreign country without first briefing the president about their mission, and also seeking permission for such a trip. If Mapisa-Ngcakula did not seek prior permission from the president, what does this say about President Ramaphosa? If she did not seek prior permission, this is even more damning of the president. Why would a Cabinet minister disrespect a president thus? For he would have known of all the issues in Mapisa-Ngcakula’s briefcase: what is the purpose of such a trip during coronavirus pandemic restrictions on travel? How would she deal with quarantine issues upon her return? How many officials would she be taking along with her and what would their responsibilities be? Has she informed the ministers of health, home affairs and transport of her trip, and have the issues of quarantine for her entourage been attended to upon their return ? These are the questions Ramaphosa should ask. If he did not pose them, then he should be severely criticised for failure of leadership. If he posed them, and still allowed the trip, then it is a double damnation. Ramaphosa should quickly correct his own monstrous creation before it becomes unmanageable and end up consuming him and his presidency. The Star