By Siphesihle Jele On 30 July 2020, the MEC for Health in Gauteng, Dr Bandile Masuku took special leave for four weeks pending his appearance before the Provincial Integrity Committee of the ANC. The leave from official government was prompted by a decision of the PEC of his party. It seems that the party was responding to a growing mood of public disapproval, following the widely reported allegations of PPE procurement corruption in the media. Indeed, it is important that we have proper governance. In fact, since 1994, the government has introduced a litany of laws, policies and regulations to ensure that South Africa moves away from the lawlessness and corruption of the erstwhile Apartheid regime. As a result, it is probably fair to say, Apartheid and democratic South Africa are oil and water when it comes to the regimes that informed governance in government. Of course, some have sharply raised the fact that the government leadership does not seem committed to implement the plethora of robust laws to curb and punish corruption. Yet at the same time, the fact that institutions of the state such as criminal prosecution and the courts are able to function and serve as a buffer and arbiter on corruption related matters, is actually a feather in the cap for our young democracy. It means we have resilient institutions. After all, institution building is one of the greatest investments that any democracy can make for the sake of peace, stability and prosperity. But what happens when you have committed leadership that is accountable, transparent and willing to implement measures to fight corruption? This brings me to the demonstrable leadership of a young leader, Dr Bandile Masuku. Contrary to dominant media narratives and headlines, many have probably ignored the fact that, long before allegations of corruption on PPE could be published by the media, Dr Masuku had already started an audit and investigation on 17 April 2020, exactly four weeks after the President declared the National State of Disaster. Why would anybody with his or her hands in the cookie jar initiate his own investigation? This is an obvious question that mainstream media does not ask, nor do they give credit for demonstrable leadership. It begs the question: is the media interested in conjured narratives to suit particular ends or interested in genuine leadership and real answers to corruption? The other interesting thing is about the principle of consistency and fairness. It is quite curious that three other provinces are reported to have the same problem of alleged PPE procurement corruption, namely; Eastern Cape, Limpopo and Mpumalanga. However, only the Gauteng MEC has been asked to take leave. One would have thought that because of the unitary nature of the ANC and the unitary nature of the South African state, other MECs would also be asked to take leave or appear before the relevant platforms to account. Is it because the other provinces understand that administrative accountability rests with the accounting authority, the HoD or the ANC is simply overly sensitive in the Gauteng province? By the way, even Western Cape is rocked by allegations of PPE corruption. Although Gauteng Health is still besieged with many challenges, there is no doubt that MEC Masuku has brought a sense of hope, optimism and growing stability in the portfolio. As ILAWU, we recognise the efforts and wish to encourage MEC Masuku to continue in his style of leadership, which is robust, inclusive and transparent. For the first time ever, under MEC Masuku, community healthcare workers (CHWs) are now part of the PERSAL system and have prospects of career progression. Further, EPWP workers in health, have been given a hearing for the first time ever. These are lowest ranking workers in the healthcare system and such an effort is quite unprecedented and welcome. Given the Life Esidimeni and Bank of Lisbon tragedies, most of our workers in Gauteng Health had been depressed and lacked motivation. Dr Masuku has championed an Employee Value Proposition programme in partnership with the private sector to improve staff morale, reward and recognise our workers who work under very challenging conditions in the biggest healthcare system in the country. A happy healthcare worker means a happy patient. About eleven hospitals without CEOs, got their CEOs before the end of 2019. This brings about certainty and stability in the management and governance of our hospitals. This was followed by the revival of the CEOs Forum. In addition, other critical clinical posts were also filled in line with public commitments made. Today unions have regular standing engagements with the MEC at a provincial level, almost on a quarterly basis; and this has brought much needed understanding and greater labour peace. As a result, the relationship between Gauteng Health and organised labour has improved. More than 80 workers who were in limbo for years; workers who worked as temps at head office were absorbed permanently under the MEC. And nurses’ uniform allowance – a recurring problem – was solved quite fast in the previous year. And a massive backlog of labour appeals dating back to 2004 were completed within a year; thereby bringing much relief and certainty to workers. Most of these achievements were done within 100 days from the date of the 2019 general elections. As workers, we have seen a lot of improvements in our working conditions. More still needs to be done, but we are hopeful that Gauteng Health could be on the right path of recovery; although we have a long way still. We will continue to contradict the department where necessary and compliment it for good work. If any of the rumours doing rounds about the MEC being cleared of any wrongdoing regarding PPE procurement are true, then it is time for the ANC to do the right thing: bring back the hardest working MEC for Health.. He has paid his dues in terms of work and absence. It is time to separate wheat from chaff! Siphesihle Jele is the national chairperson of the union, ILAWU, the Independent Liberation and Allied Workers Union The views expressed herein are not necessarily those of Independent Media