Johannesburg - The Beer Association of South Africa, which incorporates the Craft Brewers Association South Africa, Heineken and SAB, has threatened to cut alcohol supply to establishments flouting the Covid-19 lockdown level 2 regulations announced by the government. “Following recent reports of alcohol outlets breaching the level 2 lockdown regulations, the Beer Association of South Africa (Basa) has committed itself to identifying establishments found breaking the law and cutting off their supply,” said Basa chief executive Patricia Pillay. “Beer manufacturers will be requesting the details from municipalities and provincial liquor authorities of businesses whose licences have been revoked since sales resumed, and will stop the supply of alcohol to them.” Pillay said that while most outlets and restaurants were complying with the lockdown regulations, her organisation was receiving reports of businesses that were selling and serving alcohol outside legal trading hours. “We have also had reports of outlets not adhering to social distancing protocols, putting the health and safety of customers at risk. “Many South Africans drink moderately and safely, without any adverse impact on the public health system. But there are too many people who drink in excess and endanger people’s lives,” she said. “Together, as a society, we need to find a way of curbing alcohol abuse. It is critical that all role-players recognise the importance of responsible and moderate alcohol consumption.” Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane this week wrote to restaurants which have been flouting Covid-19 lockdown level 2 regulations, urging them to desist. In a statement, Kubayi-Ngubane’s spokesperson Hlengiwe Nhlabathi-Mokota said the tourism department had received complaints about non-compliance, particularly the sale of takeaway alcohol and non-adherence to physical distancing protocols. In terms of the level 2 regulations, on-site dining at restaurants is allowed and alcoholic drinks can be served until 10pm. The Star