Nána Lloyd worked as a marketing consultant before she decided to venture into her passion project. "It is interesting to look back at how it all started. I did not follow any formal process. I worked in a freelance capacity with various clients. That was a good step away from the ‘safety of a salary’. I helped one of my clients to reposition and rebrand his skincare range. That was the introduction to that world – when I did research into the opportunities in the kids’ skincare market, a passion project started." Lloyd and her business partner at the time met a seasoned and highly recommended dermatologist, who Lloyd explains as someone who had a significant impact on her life and sparked the initial idea for her company. She started Nunuki, a unique skincare brand made specifically for little humans and their sensitive and supple skin in 2018. “After my husband and I had our kids years ago, I realised my world had changed forever. Not only was I blessed to be granted the opportunity to have my own children and be their mother, but it also dawned on me that we were now fully responsible for human beings who relied on us for everything. I remember the smells of bathing, creaming and massaging my kids, these were our special moments where we bonded and laid the foundation for goodcommunication.” The birth of the name ‘Nunuki’ was a pivotal moment for the start of the business. It had a deep meaning for Lloyd and seemed to resonate with everyone she tested it with and registered the trademark. She created the brand with a brand identity company, something she believes is crucial to build a business around a brand story and not just a product. "We designed the e-commerce site – there are so many tools to help people to start an ecommerce business, it was really surprisingly easy to get that going. Then the knocking on doors, working at baby expos and markets, constantly telling the Nunuki story. But the key skills you need is to be able to hustle all the time, be prepared to make mistakes, take risks and don’t take any 'no' personally." The 46-year old self proclaimed 'Passionista' is passionate about life and her business. "Once the name ‘Nunuki’ and all the nunukis were created, I knew it was going to be something special. Once it was confirmed that the name was available to trademark, I became really excited about the infinite possibilities for the nunuki characters across different categories. This brand will ultimately be about sharing stories of kindness and celebrating our differences." Nunuki products are available at selected Kids Emporium stores, Pick ‘n Pay stores, pharmacies, independent baby boutiques or their website, www.nunuki.co.za