Johannesburg - One of two men suspected of stealing from a filling station in the south of Johannesburg has been found dead after going missing nine days ago. His body had been dumped in Kliprivier, Sebokeng. The other is in hospital fighting for his life. It is alleged the two men were caught at a nearby school after they stole from the filling station. They were allegedly arrested and taken away by security guards hired by the filling station. They had both been missing for nine days before being found on Friday. Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters confirmed that a murder case had been opened. “Police from Kliprivier opened a murder case for investigation after the body of an unknown male was found in an open veld in Kliprivier. The unknown person has since been identified as one of the two kidnapped victims reported missing at Eldorado Park,” Peters said. Khensa Mukhabela, brother of the deceased, told The Star that the family were distraught and saddened by their loss. The family had hope that both men could be found alive despite what they had allegedly done. The father of the deceased, Amos Mukhabela, said his youngest son was called and informed that his brother was arrested on Tuesday after stealing at the garage. Mukhabela said he woke up early on Wednesday to go to the police station to see his son and his friend but to his surprise they were not in custody. The father was advised to go and look for them at Baragwanath or Bheki Mlangeni hospitals as they were beaten up, but again Mukhabela didn’t find them. A couple of days later the police changed the case from a missing person to kidnapping. According to the family, police and some community members went on a search after that meeting last Wednesday, which led to the arrest of five suspects. “Investigations are under way to establish if the five suspects, initially arrested for kidnapping of two male victims, could be linked to the murder,” Peters said. The five suspects, one female and four males, are expected to appear in the Lenasia Magistrate’s Court today on charges of kidnapping. The Star