Johannesburg - The Auditor-General of South Africa (AGSA) has a constitutional mandate and, as the supreme audit institution (SAI) of South Africa, exists to strengthen our country’s democracy by enabling oversight, accountability and governance in the public sector through auditing, thereby building public confidence. The AGSA invites bids for the following requirements:  NB: In respect of bids AGSA/02/2020/EC and AGSA/04/2020/KZN, the AGSA gives notice of the amendment to general condition 14.1.3 number 4 as stated in the bid document. All other conditions of the bid remain the same. Bidders that downloaded bids by 1 September 2020 are kindly requested to download the updated versions of the bid document (Excel document). Note: bidders who are interested in attending the non-compulsory briefing session must send their email address indicating the tender number to Mavhungum@agsa.co.za and MphoMok2@agsa.co.za before 8 September 2020 to receive an invitation to the session. NB: Bid responses MUST be posted to: Senior Manager: Supply Chain Management, PO Box 446, Pretoria, 0001 OR deposited at: Supply Chain Management, Brooklyn Gardens, East Wing, First Floor, 235 Veale Street (corner Veale and Middel Streets), Nieuw Muckleneuk, Brooklyn, Pretoria. Bids can also be submitted electronically by OneDrive. It remains the bidder’s responsibility to ensure that bids submitted electronically are fully received. Special condition of bid: In line with the AGSA’s transformation strategy, which is guided by the B-BBEE codes of good practice, the organisation aims to be a key contributor to socio-economic change in the country. We therefore prioritise procurement from businesses certified at B-BBEE levels 1 or 2. We may also give preference to companies that are at least 51% black-owned and at least 30% black women-owned. Please note that, from 27 August 2020, this advertisement, the bid document, the pricing schedule and the specification can be downloaded from the AGSA website (www.agsa.co.za) by clicking on the Tenders link. Interested bidders must follow the AGSA’s Covid-19 safety precautions, which can also be found on our website. For general enquiries, please email Ms Celia Mabusela at MabuselaC@agsa.co.za. We will only respond to written enquiries.Note: bidders who are interested in attending the non-compulsory briefing session must send their email address indicating the tender number to Mavhungum@agsa.co.za and MphoMok2@agsa.co.za before 8 September 2020 to receive an invitation to the session. NB: bid responses MUST be posted OR deposited at: • Senior Manager: Supply Chain Management, PO Box 446, Pretoria, 0001 • Supply Chain Management, Brooklyn Gardens, East Wing, first floor,  235 Veale Street (corner Veale and Middel Streets) Nieuw Muckleneuk, Brooklyn, Pretoria Bids can also be submitted electronically by OneDrive. It remains the bidder’s responsibility to ensure that bids submitted electronically are fully received. Special condition of bid In line with the AGSA’s transformation strategy, which is guided by the B-BBEE codes of good practice, the organisation aims to be a key contributor to socio-economic change in the country. We therefore prioritise procurement from businesses certified at B-BBEE levels 1 or 2. We may also give preference to companies that are at least 51% black-owned and at least 30% black women-owned. Please note that, from 27 August 2020, this advertisement, the bid document, the pricing schedule and the specification can be downloaded from the AGSA website (www.agsa.co.za) by clicking on the Tenders link. Interested bidders must follow the AGSA’s Covid-19 safety precautions, which can also be found on our website. For general enquiries, please email Ms Celia Mabusela at MabuselaC@agsa.co.za. We will only respond to written enquiries.