“Anti-poor” provisions, which force financially illiterate and rural family members to transfer money electronically, have been included in the final draft document for inmate visitations at correctional centres. According to an internal document from the Department of Correctional Services (DCS), which was signed by its chief operations commissioner JM Mkabela, “cash payments (or) deposits for inmates from external sources are allowed through authorised electronic means”. This has drawn the ire of inmates and their relatives, who alleged the electronic transfer of money was “anti-poor” as it disadvantaged many families, especially those in rural communities who are financially illiterate. This was confirmed by a high-ranking department insider, who said officials would not entertain the possibility of sanitising cash transfers for inmates who hail from poor backgrounds. “One painful story was when they were told that everybody should send money either through electronic funds transfer (EFT) or Speedpoint. The question they (inmates) raised was what about that granny who doesn’t have knowledge with EFT and only has cash? The officials just answered that they don’t take cash,” said the source, who asked to remain anonymous. The internal department document added: “Visitors are not allowed to bring any item (or) article, including toiletries, into the correctional centre. Visitors will be allowed to purchase approved items at the correctional centre kiosk.” This was also a contentious issue for families, who alleged that the kiosk was far more expensive than outside shops, which would be beneficial to struggling homes. However, department spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo denied that the DCS was anti-poor, saying that electronic transfers were standard within prisons. “Making payments through the use of electronic technology is not new in correctional services. The SA Post Office has been one of our partners for years and is easily accessible throughout the country. “It is also not true that kiosks are more expensive than outside shops,” Nxumalo said. “As restrictions have been eased across the country, DCS is constantly monitoring the public health situation in each correctional centre, including community transmissions, and taking decisions accordingly based on the risk levels. “Our top priority remains the health and safety of our officials, inmates and the public. We will therefore continue to monitor the situation and adjust safety measures and operating procedures where necessary,” Nxumalo added. The Star