Johannesburg - Religious gatherings could be silent carriers of the coronavirus, especially among its members who are asymptomatic carriers. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) analysed data from a group of South Africans repatriated from Pakistan in April where they were attending a religious festival. They published the results in the August communicable diseases communique. When they landed in the country, they were taken to quarantine sites where they were tested for Covid-19. Eleven of the 85 (13%) tested positive after being in quarantine for eight days. All 11 were asymptomatic at the time of testing and 14 days after repatriation. “Of the 65 repatriates who met the inclusion criteria, 10 who tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 were 18 to 24-yearsolds and were all male. Six of these 10 cases reported sharing a living space with five to 10 other people while attending the Jamaat in Pakistan.” It said physical distancing and hand sanitisation were not common practice while they were in Pakistan, and less so at religious gatherings. The NCID warned, that like in the Bloemfontein Covid-19 church cluster outbreak, as well as in South Korea, religious gatherings might be a big factor in spreading the disease. Earlier this year, more than 60 people who attended the Divine Restoration Church tested positive. In South Korea’s capital Seoul, the worst Covid19 cluster, up to 5 200 cases, originated from the Shincheonji Church of Jesus. “Religious gatherings continue to provide opportunities for ongoing transmission of the SarsCoV-2 virus. The South African government’s regulations stating that no gatherings, religious or otherwise, should comprise more than 50 participants is an attempt to limit such transmission events, through social distancing. “Although all cases reported being asymptomatic... a lack of information for the quarantine conditions and period in Pakistan... makes drawing conclusions difficult. However, the fact that half of the cases eligible for interview reported a history of smoking or were active smokers, suggests that smoking may be an important yet contentious risk factor.” The Star