Johannesburg - An upcoming TV writer is considering taking legal action against popular TV channel Moja Love. Masilive Tati from Durban alleges that the channel used her concept for their new show titled You Promised To Marry Me. The show, which succeeded Uyajola 9/9, premiered on Sunday hosted by Jub Jub Molemo Maarohanye. The new show helps disgruntled individuals to approach their significant other to find out why they could not fulfil their promise of marriage. A concept Tati firmly claims was her brainchild and that she submitted a proposal on June 19 and again on June 27. The Star has seen two emails sent to proposals@mojalove.co.za on both dates. “Early in June I saw an advert that Moja Love needs proposals for new TV shows. I ran the idea past my younger sister and I thought it was a good idea since there was nothing like that on television.” This came after the channel on June 12 called on viewers to share fresh ideas for shows they would like to see on it. Bokani Moyo, head of Moja Love, dismissed Tati’s claims, stating that all proposals submitted for the month of June have not been processed because of the volume of proposals being received daily. “From the proposals submitted thus far the channel has not selected any. As the amount of proposals is overwhelming and we are in the process of setting up a dedicated committee to manage the workflow,” he said. However, Tati is adamant that her show is similar to what viewers saw this past Sunday. Tati said her show was aimed at helping women in relationships to know where they stand with their partners when it comes to marriage. “The show was to provide a platform for women to ask the question undishada nini (when are you marrying me) and to find out if they’ve been living on empty promises in those long-term relationships.” Tati said her idea was not protected by copyright since she wasn’t clued up on how the industry works. “I didn’t think it would have been necessary at that point and I don’t have any knowledge on how these things work. “I am definitely seeking legal advice on the matter. I am hoping that Moja Love can credit me or compensate me.” Moyo told The Star that the channel started working on the show before viewers were requested to send in their show proposals. “The channel has been working on the show format for You Promised to Marry Me since last year as a spin off of Uyajola 9/9.” Moyo added that the concept of the show was created and formalised internally by the channel’s executive producers. The Star