Johannesburg – Protea Glen residents came out in their numbers to pay their final respects to slain Matsie Dhladhla and her two grandchildren. The 58-year-old and Botshelo, 14, and Tebello Motsele, 10, were found dead in a pool of blood last week, their throats slit. The funeral was held on Wednesday at their home in Extension 24. Residents were seen outside the home holding placards with messages condemning the killing of women and children. The group could be heard singing outside the tent where the service was being held. The still traumatised family members wept through the services as they stared at the three coffins. Pupils from the children’s school shared their fondest moments of them, with Botshelo’s coach Mawande Sisilana describing him as a potential football star. The coach urged people to raise young boys in a manner that will help them be upstanding men. City of Johannesburg council speaker Noncebo Molwele, who attended the funeral, condemned the killing of women and children. “We are living in difficult times where society is so sick that it kills the nation’s future. A society that can take a woman’s life is sick. What do we do as a society when such things happen? “It is time for us as a society to stand up, it’s time to go back to ubuntu,” said Molwele. Dhladhla’s family got to know of the gruesome murder when a neighbour noticed there had not been any activity in the yard for a couple of days. Dhladhla’s sister Mapule Motsele told The Star at the time: “The neighbour contacted our other sister, Palesa, asking her where the kids were as she didn’t see any activity in the yard for a long time and couldn’t get through to my sister. “Palesa, who is a metro policewoman and the mother of 10-year-old Tebello, went with her partner to check what could be the matter. That’s when they discovered the bodies,” said Motsele. According to Motsele, when Palesa and her partner arrived at the house, the gate was locked. “Her partner jumped over the wall and went to assess the yard. After knocking on the door with no reply, her partner went around the yard and when he peeked through the window, he saw blood. “Fortunately, the window was slightly open and he was able to break the burglar gate to gain entry.” Motsele said the partner discovered Tebello’s body in Dhladhla’s bedroom while the body of the teenager was found in another room. “The forensic experts that came to the scene described the cruel manner in which our sister and the kids were killed. They confirmed that both the kids’ throats were slit while our sister was stabbed in the neck, stomach and side,” said Motsele. Dhladhla, who lived with the two children, was living with her boyfriend before kicking him out in July. “We believe it was the boyfriend who killed our sister and children as there was no sign of robbery so it had to be someone who knows the house and has the keys,” said Motsele at the time. The family believe the killer came in, killed them and locked the house and gate behind him so nothing would appear out of the ordinary. Dhladhla, who lost all three of her children and her husband over the years, is survived by her three sisters and her father. She is said to have been a humble, down-to-earth person who lived for her “two little boys”. “The family is in deep pain, even the community members. My sister was a good person who cared about her family and those around her. All her children passed on and Botshelo was all she had left from her children. We are very devastated and want justice for our sister so that we can find closure,” said Motsele. The Star