Black Motion is celebrating 10 years of music and has something special in store for fans. “We were supposed to have a live concert on the 24th, but due to the pandemic and the lockdown we could not do it,” one-half of the talented duo, Robert “Murdah” Mahosana, said. The duo has pre-recorded a concert which is set to go live on Heritage Day. They will celebrate the decade with a special documentary filmed in partnership with Red Bull that will look back on the seminal moments in their career. Complimenting the documentary will be a special live performance at a scenic venue. Mahosana said shooting online was an interesting experience. “We had to work with the lighting and play and pause regularly to make sure we got the right shots with the natural light. Some parts had to be shot while the sun was setting. It was an amazing experience that I truly enjoyed. It was the first time we played something live that was rehearsed in a sense.” Black Motion has always been invested in the African sound, something they have managed to push over the last 10 years. “We decided early on that if this was how we were going to break into the industry, we had to keep up the style and not change it. We stuck to our style and produced more of our South African culture, I think there’s a lot that the world has not seen yet. Our culture is unique and we are also trying to show the youth that our culture is really rich musically. So we keep up with the times, but still stay true to us.” The response, over the years from all the places they have visited outside of the country, has been a great experience for them. “They are really open to new music and they are open to learn about what is going on around the world. Their main focus is really to learn about the music from other countries. That’s why you see the likes of Master KG and Sho Madjozi making it big that side. The world is really looking to us right now,” Mahosana said. Their creative juices have not stopped flowing through the lockdown. “Not being able to perform at gigs has been quite unfortunate, but for us making music is something we are consistently doing. We have had to really be active online to inform our fans about what is happening with the music because everything is digital now. If you stay quiet they will forget about you. “With this lockdown what we have learnt is that you have to take the time to make a proper album for a good few months to achieve what you want to do. So we have been doing that since Black Motion started.” For this new album, The Healers: The Last Chapter, it’s all about the Black Motion’s experience and how it all came to be. “It’s all about good music and soul. I think when we first started this it was just to get the music out. We took it easy and didn’t focus on what others are doing, but rather what we can do for ourselves. It’s been a really dope journey and we are so excited to open a new chapter.” The Star