It was between Cape Town, Joburg and London that Langa Mavuso conceptualised his self-titled album. “I started writing the album during a break-up and I wanted to reflect on it. It was between the ages of 23 and 26 and I really talk about that in the album. It's also why the cover is the way it is. I’ve used two mirrors to reflect my one face.” The cover also reflects the three parts to the 12-track album. “The beginning is sadness and the pain of losing love. The middle is the confusion and the mess, trying to pretend everything is fine but really feeling a lot of pain and regret, and the end is where I find peace and solace because I have a ‘come-to-Jesus’ moment, reflective of the world but beautiful at the end with Love Lost. It’s a moment of acceptance.” Mavuso came on to the music scene with his debut EP Liminal Sketches and breakthrough single Sunday Blues. His rich voice and song-writing ability have placed him firmly in the hearts of many South Africans. For those who will be introducing themselves to his music with this Langa album, Mavuso hopes they can go on the journey with him. “I want them to reflect, be honest and find healing through openness because that is what it is for me with every project, I seek to cultivate that energy of healing and introspection.” Mavuso said the track listing is very important. "There is a story there of establishing the heartbreak and then the resolutions. If people can't listen to the whole album, they should listen to at least one song from each part - Searching, Panther and then Spirit.” Mavuso has not yet made plans to do any live shows. “I’m still trying to observe if people would be interested in coming to a live show and feel safe. At the end of the day the pandemic isn't over just because you're over it.” Mavuso’s album comes on the back of being named by Deezer as their NEXT Artist of 2020 (the only South African artist to feature on their list) and it has already charted on the iTunes Top 100 All Genres Chart (in the Top 40) and at number 3 on the iTunes R&B/Soul Album Chart. It is now available on all digital platforms.