Johannesburg - Influencers have become the new channel during Covid-19. They have managed to replace brands when it comes to communicating with audiences. Influencers offer cost efficiency and minimal production costs. Advertising agencies have jumped on this bandwagon as well. One such agency is Ogilvy PR, which has reached more than a million subscribers on social media platform LinkedIn. Through their tool, InfluenceO, they help clients use and understand the full spectrum of influencers and the power of influencer marketing. Since March, the trend of using influencer marketing has gone into overdrive with brands increasingly looking for innovative ways to reach consumers. Advertising budgets in past recessions were often slashed far beyond actual GDP losses, suggesting a tendency for marketers to overreact to economic hardship. Content creator Jessica van Heerden and singer Thabsie were recently part of Brutal Fruit’s latest campaign, launching their new 330ml can. Van Heerden has been awarded for her content creation and spends a great amount of her time creating content in partnership with clients. Being at home under lockdown did not stop her from creating content. “I’m pretty confident that I can create content anywhere, so I managed quite well shooting in and around my home during the lockdown period as I’m quite familiar with my space – it just required a bit more experimentation and out-of-the-box kind of thinking,” she said. “The challenges came when I had to create content outside ... it required a bit more research and planning.” Van Heerden said one of the keys to being a successful content creator was to not compare yourself too much to others. “Passion and motivation spark an interest and get you started, but only habit will keep you going. Consistency is key and stay in your own lane. I take influence from so many different avenues, but I love seeing others succeed and grow, so it really pushes me to work harder,” she said. “Each day I mainly want to be a better person and content creator than I was the day before – so just believing in myself and being my own cheerleader has had the most influence in my growth, but also having an amazing support system really gives you that spark.” While she wouldn’t change anything about her industry, she wishes she had started much earlier. “Completing my degree and focusing on that at the time was very important to me, so I started posting my passion for beauty as a hobby and it grew into something I never even knew could be a career – so I’m genuinely thankful to be able to do something I love,” said Van Heerden. Singer Thabsie has been focusing a lot of her energy on her social media presence throughout the pandemic. “It’s been a great outlet to still express myself creatively and connect with my supporters,” she said. For those starting in the industry, she advises them that it takes 10 years to become a success, the real work starts after the breakthrough, and that passion will make you consistent. “My influence comes from my mentors, my close friends and family and ultimately myself, I’m very competitive with the girl I was yesterday. I’ve learnt the importance of respecting the craft and what true hard work is. I’ve also realised what a blessing it is to live out your passion every day.” Head of InfluenceO, Dylan Joubert, said it had never been more important to be agile, especially in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The winners will be the brands who see the opportunities to partner with influencers in strategic and creative ways,” he said. The Star