Her love for music began when she was eight years old and she entered the world of music in 2015. The 24-year-old has since released two songs, Bye Bye My Boo and Let’s Face It (Take It Away). As a youngster she used to play the keyboard almost every night and that triggered an interest to start making up new sounds. She grew to love composing songs and recording them. Eventually, Mabunda formed a group with her sister and called it Shanpris. Together they became devout house music composers who worked on many original songs, as well as remixing a few well-known songs for Soundcloud, Reverbnation and YouTube. As a solo artist, her first TV appearance as a vocalist was on the music show MVP Jam on e.tv in 2015. She is currently working in studio with various local and international artists and also compiling music for an EP she is planning to release soon. The talent spoke to The Star about the internet:  In your own words, what is the internet? A platform where ordinary individuals can become extraordinary. The best platform for free education in any industry you want to place yourself in, as well as a negative addition to those who use it wrongly.  How old were you when you started using the internet? In my Grade 1 year, our teacher, a Mrs Bo, used to give computer skills lessons. We used the internet to download more chess and Pac-Man games. I preferred the strategic games such as Age of Empires.  How often do you spend time on the internet? I’m always on it.  What do you understand by 5G? I believe 5G is a new evolution that might be one of the biggest things next to fibre, but for cellphones. I spend most of my time on the road and on my phone, so it gets annoying when I can’t even load a synced file from my PC on my phone, or send an attachment via mail. I believe 5G is an investment I’m willing to make. You may also like this read: Msaki does not indulge in tech too much  How is the internet helping you with your music? I research new techniques, software, and the market using the internet, so it plays a big role. As an artist, the majority of music is discovered on the internet, because it makes things simple in regards to getting music on your electronic devices.  How do you communicate with your followers on social media? I use Instagram and Facebook mostly and sometimes WhatsApp.