At a media briefing in Sandton on Thursday, Samsung South Africa unveiled the Galaxy A71 and Galaxy A51, the latest additions to the popular Galaxy A Series, as well as the Galaxy Note10 Lite. The launch highlighted the company’s efforts to bring pioneering technology to South Africans. “It’s a privilege to go to a place where we are taking people’s ideas and using our technologies to bring that to a reality. As we enter this age of experience, where there is a seamless integration of technology and the human, that’s exciting,” said Samsung’s integrated mobility director, Justin Hume. He said three main technologies were paving the way for 2020. “The first of that is in the 5G technology space. Our network solutions are being widely deployed in major cities like Seoul and Atlanta. We are ready for South Africa. “We use this platform as a bit of a plea that quality and spectrum allocations get resolved in the very near future and we can bring a plethora of products to market to wow South Africans.” Hume said the IoT (internet of things) was making great strides in bringing that type of technology to the market. “In 2020 you will see a lot more consumer-facing products. In 2019, we brought a number of firsts to the market products that tripped the headlines last year. We are developing and showcasing those products going into the new year.” In terms of growth, 2019 was a turbulent year in the mobile industry, but Samsung said it had seen great success in that regard and a lot of it had been down to the A Series they introduced in April. “We wanted to bring innovation to all. The growth rate was over 190% in the A Series, selling over 4 million A Series products,” Hume said. Cambridge Mokanyane, head of marketing for Samsung SA and social media, said: “We know in order to win in this battle, we have to play in the social media space, innovating and engaging deeply with young people.” The company’s most recent partnership with ambassador Cassper Nyovest had allowed them to connect with many consumers. “We use a lot of influencers and ambassadors, we treat them as family and spend a lot of time with them every year in advance, talking about what we are going to do with them going forward, and they come with their brief because they don’t see the world through Samsung. "They bring live insights from trendsetters and that translates into our products and services. It's an exchange of ideas.” The Galaxy A71 and Galaxy A51, the latest additions to the Galaxy A Series, will be released in the country next month. The Galaxy Note10 Lite is set to be released in a few weeks.