Muzikayise Malephane, the man accused of killing eight-months pregnant Tshegofatso Pule in June this year, will stand trial next month for the murder of the 28-year-old woman. The murder of Pule sent shock waves across the country and internationally after she was found hanging from a tree in Durban Deep, Roodepoort. Malephane, who wore a white T-shirt with a white mask, made a brief appearance at the South Gauteng High Court on Wednesday for pre-trial. The 31-year-old man faces charges of murder, defeating the ends of justice, unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. During the court proceedings, the prosecutor asked Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng to postpone the matter to January 22 for the trial to start. The accused’s previous appearance last month was postponed to allow his lawyers to make presentations to the director of public prosecutions. “The date of the trial has been set down for hearing in this court on January 22, 2021,” Judge Mokgoatlheng said. The announcement of the trial date was met with a “thank you” chorus from the full gallery, including Pule’s friends, family and supporters. Pule was last seen alive while getting into a metered taxi which her boyfriend had called for her. Mystery surrounds the details of her murder after it was reported that Malephane had not worked alone in allegedly planning and orchestrating her murder. Pule’s uncle and family spokesperson Tumisang Katake said the family was pleased with the legal proceedings so far. “The proceedings have been run expeditiously. In the next stage the trial begins so we will have to wait until January 22 where everything will be revealed. “That’s all we have been waiting for,” he said. Katake said the family knows that they will be emotionally shattered when the trial reveals what happened to Pule. “We are expecting that tough things are going to come out, but that’s what we’ve been waiting for. We've been wanting to know the truth as to what exactly happened, but that’s the way we will deal with our pain and have closure,” he said. Katake said the journey since Pule’s body was found until now had been difficult for the family. However, they were committed to travelling the journey until the trial has concluded. Supporters of the Pule family and activists against gender-based violence picketed outside the high court yesterday, wearing T-shirts that said “Justice for Tshegofatso and The Baby” and placards with Pule’s face on them that said “Society take charge! Report abuse”. Olebogeng Moemisi, the chairperson of non-profit organisation Sister’s Keeper Movement, said she was happy that a trial date had been set and that there was movement in the case. “We are going to go home to cry and wipe our tears. We are going to sit and start meditating to prepare for the trial,” she said. Moemisi said the postponements in the case have been draining for Pule’s friends and family. However, there was “light at the end of the tunnel”. “Every now and then we look at her (Pule’s) memory, pictures and remember everything we did with her and laugh because we know she was a bubbly soul. “We will stand up for her and our unborn child,” she said. The Star