Johannesburg - Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, Defence Intelligence Division chief Jeremia Nyembe, Defence Intelligence chief director Bongani Ngcobo and Defence Intelligence budget manager LMS Luke have a case to answer. A leaked investigation report of the Defence Department has revealed a looting spree at the SA National Defence Force. The report detailed that corruption at the Defence Intelligence Division was expected to have cost the taxpayer more than R4 billion. The probe, which was commissioned by the department to investigate allegations of corruption into itself, has implicated the defence intelligence bosses. The investigation also revealed that a Defence Intelligence Division’s fund was looted in 2018, and found gross corruption on the upgrading and repairs of facilities by the Department of Public Works, acquisition of special defence equipment, corruption at the defence attaché and “corrupt persons” connected to the minister. The report, which was never made public, also found corruption in the recruitment and enlistment process, the work attendance register, corrupt procurement deals and a bizarre cybesecurity training tender. Saber Technologies, a company that provided the cybersecurity training, was given 50% of its payment before the training began. On October 18, 2018, X Tshofela, titled as director of geospatial intelligence, signed a motivational letter for the tender's approval. According to the motivation, the projected cost of the training was R55 177 340. A total of R22 588 670 was paid in advance, without quotations delivered, and the tender was approved without due process. No other companies entered the bid, and approval was first signed by a Defence Intelligence boss and not procurement. The Star has also learnt that Saber Technologies had no record of training people in cybersecurity. On December 21, 2018, JHH Richter, titled as FASC manager at Defence Intelligence, signed the transfer of funds document, paying R22 588 670 into Saber Technologies’ Bidvest bank account Saber Technologies was also awarded the tender on the basis that it was BEE compliant. The Star has learnt that its registered directors are Chinese people. Although the cybersecurity training was due to train 20 people, it ended up training 63 people. Of the 63 names on the training documents, only 30 of them were employees of the department. Mapisa-Nqakula’s office has not responded to calls. General Nyembe also has not responded to calls. In documents The Star has seen, Luke approved the budget for the tender on November 12, 2018, but Nyembe had already approved it on October 26, 2018. Nyembe approved the budget a month before the tender went through the budget and procurement process. ● The Star Investigation continues. This is part one of the story.