Many warnings are pouring out from the government and health experts about how South Africans should be playing their part in curbing the spread of Covid-19, and how burdened the health-care facilities – both public and private – are with an influx of patients with virus-related illnesses. In KZN most people, or at least those who care, are still in shock at the recent death of nine nuns who died within the space of two weeks. This after they attended a celebration of their foundation on the South Coast on December 8. The first victim died two days after the celebration, and the number could be higher. Health-care workers, on the other hand, have also been left flabbergasted by the number of cases they have had to deal with since the outbreak of the new strain of the virus. At least two health-care workers in a public hospital in Durban expressed fear for their lives and those of others in the hospital, because of the rate at which Covid cases were being brought into the facility. Three days ago concern was raised by the authorities and unions representing health-care workers about the rate at which the virus was spreading. It is not only spreading, it is killing. As of Tuesday, a cumulative 940 212 cases were identified countrywide with an increase of 339 deaths in six provinces (the Eastern Cape with 107, Free State 8, Gauteng 30, KwaZulu-Natal 45, Limpopo 7 and the Western Cape 142). Given the attitude and behaviour of many citizens regarding the disease, it is not worth mentioning the recoveries recorded. The message is this: the virus is with us, and disregarding messages from the government, including health-care officials, is worsening the situation. If you are able to, stay home. Do it for yourself and your loved ones, and for health-care workers who don’t have the luxury of staying at home. Our KZN health MEC just sent out a message on social media warning that if the people of the province do not change their attitude, the province is at risk of being slapped with tough new restrictions that will be similar to, or even more stringent than, those imposed in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. The Star