By Editorial Once again the integrity and the little respect that our men and women in blue seem to possess have been dragged through the mud. This time around a constable from Wolmaransstad in the North West was caught on video on Saturday trying to operate an official vehicle while drunk. The community had cornered the uniformed officer after he reversed into someone’s fence and when he was approached, he battled to get out of the car as he was too wasted. When he eventually managed the strength to leave the steering wheel and inspect the car’s damage, he stumbled to the ground and had to be helped up. He then had to be carried into the car where a plastic bag, presumably containing alcohol, could be seen on the passenger’s side. It was a horrible sight to see and the provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Sello Kwena released a statement yesterday (Monday) condemning the cop’s conduct and also confirmed that the officer had not been given permission to use the vehicle. Kwena also added that a criminal case of drinking and driving had been opened and the officer would be subjected to an internal disciplinary process. Without undermining the commissioner’s interventions in this matter, we need to point out the other videos doing the rounds of officers misbehaving in public and in some instances putting citizen’s lives at risk. In August, a video showing an alleged policeman heavily intoxicated and armed caused a stir on social media. He was so drunk that his gun fell out of its holster and he could not pick it up. That gun could have easily ended in the wrong hands. Police Minister Bheki Cele likes to talk tough but seems to be losing his grip when it comes to instilling discipline in his foot soldiers. Perhaps their unbecoming behaviour is just an extension of how the police don’t properly investigate criminal cases brought to them. Sometimes key evidence goes missing because of poor police work. In 2017, it was reported that 11 334 officers did not have gun competency certificates and that 3 500 were walking around with official guns without passing the training declaring them competent to handle them. The entire police force needs an evaluation and other strategies to ensure discipline is paramount at all times. Cele needs to act now before a life is lost because of a drunk officer. The Star