Johannesburg - Several  countries around the world have banned flights and travellers from South Africa in light of the new, more infectious coronavirus strain circulating in the country. On December 18, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize announced that researchers had discovered a new mutation of the coronavirus – similar to one found in the UK last week – that he said seemed to affect young people more than strains that had previously been circulating. “Clinicians have been providing anecdotal evidence of a shift in the clinical epidemiological picture – in particular noting that they are seeing a larger proportion of younger patients with no comorbidities presenting with critical illness,” Mkhize said. The minister added that the evidence strongly suggested that South Africa’s second wave of infection was being driven by the new variant. “Our youths are not wearing masks, and some are clearly intoxicated,” he said, referring to the graduation parties. “They're throwing caution to the wind and don’t care about the rules of the State of Disaster.” Mkhize said cases were “growing exponentially” and warned that additional restrictions would probably be necessary. In light of the announcement of the new mutation, several countries have banned or suspended flights and travellers from South Africa, the UK and Denmark. Turkey’s Health Minister, Fahrettin Koca, announced on Twitter on Sunday that flights from the UK, Denmark – where nine cases of the new strain have been detected – the Netherlands and South Africa would be suspended. “With the instruction of our president and with the co-ordination of our Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, a temporary suspension has been decided for flights from England, Denmark, The Netherlands and South Africa to our country,” Koca wrote. El Salvador’s president, Nayib Bukele, said on Twitter that anyone who had been in the UK or South Africa in the past 30 days would not be allowed to enter the country. Israel also announced on Sunday that travellers from South Africa, Denmark and the UK were banned from entering its borders. Switzerland said it was suspending flights from the UK and South Africa from midnight on Sunday “until further notice”. Germany is also considering restrictions. AFP on Sunday reported that a source close to the German health ministry said the country was considering banning flights from South Africa and the UK. The Star