By Editorial This week, at the State Capture Commission of Inquiry chaired by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, Pravin Gordhan, the Minister of Public Enterprises, conceded under cross-examination by advocate Dali Mpofu that a rogue unit existed at Sars and he had been instrumental in its formation. Some political experts are suggesting that after years of denying the existence the unit, Gordhan acknowledged that it also had no statutory foundations, and this, on its own, suggested that its establishment was unlawful. “If anything, Gordhan himself went rogue in his determination to pursue whatever he thought served his interests. Instead of answering a simple straight question, he went on to mumble some incomprehensible nonsense,” says political analyst and University of Zululand professor, Sipho Seepe, in his analysis. As the architect of the state capture narrative, the entire commission was established on the testimonies of Gordhan, former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas and former member of Parliament, Vytjie Mentor. Once interrogated and cross-examined, all three have failed spectacularly to prove that state capture is a thing. Instead, what the commission has exposed is how private companies such as Bosasa, EOH and other businessmen used their influence to bribe government officials into getting multibillion-rand state contracts. Evidently, basic common sense shows that Gordhan abused his position in establishing the rogue unit. In doing so he broke the law in that this act was unlawful and, lastly, he has destroyed lives on the basis of gossip. With these revelations, President Cyril Ramaphosa must do the right thing and remove Gordhan from political office and relieve him of his duties Gordhan joins a list of other disgraced politicians who have lied under oath at commissions, such as the bumbling Mondli Gungubele, who must also face the music. As things stand, some have rightly put it that commissions in South Africa are fast becoming kangaroo courts based on political affiliations and factionalism. The state capture commission is fast becoming one of these kangaroo courts, and if nothing is done about Gordhan then it all would have been a waste of time, money and resources. The Star