Kamvelihle Goba There is only one form of patriarchy in South Africa: it is white monopoly capital. Patriarchy is not an attitude, it's not behaviour, it's a system of power. Power in South Africa structurally is white, male and capitalist. Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane is under attack from real patriarchy. The media, judiciary and politics. The latest attack on her is now financial harassment – of tax records using SARS to intimidate her. There are contending class forces in South Africa, and the owners of the means of production and their recruited footsoldiers in the governing party are hell bent on destroying an African woman for simply upholding the law. Mkhwebane is under the highest form of gender-based violence. It is foolish to shout “stop GBV” on the one hand and yet keep quiet about the brazen, blatant attack on her, from the Women's League to progressive feminist groupings in the country. The office of the Public Protector under Mkhwebane for the first time has recorded a clean audit. Demonstrating once more her efficacy with regards to good governance. On the contrary, the darling which is said to be Thuli Madonsela never recorded a clean audit despite the endless bailouts from government. Even Grade 12 analysis of the likes of Redi Tlhabi and the DA’s Natasha Mazzone, who failed LLB dismally, can overnight turn into legal practitioners where Mkhwebane is concerned. Mkhwebane studied B Proc at the University of the North, the now University of Limpopo, from 1989-1992. She enrolled for an LLB from 1993 to 1994. She was funded by the KwaNdebele government during her studies and the condition was to work for the government on completion of her studies. Her contact with the office of the Public Protector was in 1999. From the small town of Bethal, Mpumalanga. In 2018, Mkhwebane was appointed first vice-president of the African Ombudsman and Mediators Association (AOMA). It is a continental body of 40 public protector-type institutions and an additional four sectoral ombudsman institutions‚ including the South African Military Ombud and the Western Cape Police Ombudsman. The goals of the association are to advance the ideals of good governance and human rights in Africa by supporting and protecting the independence and development of ombudsman institutions on the continent. Just like the deliberate attack on Judge President John Hlophe, the attack on Mkhwebane has nothing to do with her legal competence. The fact is that she is legally biased towards the working class. They both see law and justice as a means to change the course of history. She does not fear confronting white monopoly capital and the native bourgeoisie. We now see this with the attacks on the Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng for merely being a soldier of Christ in defence of the public. Mkhwebane is not claiming to fight patriarchy. She is wrestling with the merchants of Stellenbosch and their agents in Parliament, the judiciary and the financial sector through bank accounts surveillance. In South Africa, there is only one form of patriarchy, it is racist capitalism spearheaded by white men who own the JSE, the banks, the mines and land, who in turn buy the native bourgeoisie with billions. This is the case because the struggle has not yet been won by the progressive, revolutionary forces scattered in the country. The ruling party is not the ruling class. The ruling class can use the ruling party to advance its own agenda against public good. Until this decisive struggle to return the fatherland is won, distinguished African women like Mkhwebane will be victims of patriarchy. In South Africa there is only one form of structural power; it's not an attitude, it is a system of power. * Kamvelihle Goba is a student activist and a political writer. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Star