Johannesburg - With many Joburgers planning on hitting the road ahead of Christmas Day, Public Safety MMC Mally Mokoena has issued a caution for travellers. Mokoena advises travellers and motorists that travelling should be well planned, calm and safe until the destination is reached. “It is better to travel during the early hours after a good night’s rest rather than embark on a long journey during the day or early evening because you might get drowsy along the way but continue driving which is really bad judgment that could end in disaster,” Mokoena says. She gave tips on how to stay safe and refreshed on the road, stating that it is better to pull over at a petrol station or well away from the road and rest until refreshed. Thapelo Masemola of Alexander said would he will be travelling early Thursday  morning before sunrise to avoid the many other motorists travelling to Limpopo. “Travelling the day before Christmas is always tricky and the traffic is hectic with many people rushing to be with their families on Christmas. I'll be driving out tomorrow (Thursday) morning at 4am to avoid traffic and driving for long periods of time in the heat,” Masemola says. Another traveller who has had to make alternative plans is Cristina Mucavel, who stays in Soweto but is from Mozambique. “My husband and I have decided to travel after Christmas because of the congestion at the borders. We are sad we won’t spend Christmas with our family but we hope to usher-in the new year together," Mucavel says. Mokoena urged all motorists to adhere to the rules of the road as well as the Covid-19 regulations to avoid getting into trouble with the law. “If motorists are still not adhering to the rules, driving recklessly, speeding and being road hogs then hearing without obedience is futile and they will be severely punished by the law. “We’ve had a very difficult year with people losing jobs and lives to Covid-19, so don’t add to the pain and misery by being an inconsiderate driver, especially with passengers. Whether leaving Joburg or visiting here, all cities have basically the same laws that have to be obeyed," she says, adding that there has to be a behaviour change, considering the pandemic. During the festive season there will be a high visibility of police, the metro police and the emergency management personnel on the roads as the government continues efforts to keep law and order as well as respond to emergencies. The Star