Johannesburg - After years of denying the existence of the Sars rogue unit, Public Enterprise Minister Pravin Gordhan admitted on Monday that there was in fact was a special intelligence unit at Sars – but according to him, it was aimed at investigating the smuggling of cigarettes and other illicit trade in the country. The Sars rogue unit was high technology intelligence structure with investigative and spy equipment sometimes greater than state security. Gordhan made the revelation following a tough cross-examination by advocate Dali Mpofu, who was unrelenting in his quest to establish the basis of testimony Gordhan gave against former Sars commissioner Tom Moyane two years ago. Describing his role in the unit, Gordhan in his evidence said he had asked former finance minister Trevor Manuel to fund the formation of the unit. According to him, Sars was going to ask the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) to assist them in fighting against the smuggling of cigarettes and other illicit trade in the country. However, he came under attack from Mpofu, who said only the police, army and intelligence unit had powers to set up such a unit, and not Sars. “The establishment of the unit simply because the NIA lost appetite was a contravention of the National Strategic Intelligence Act of 94. It was the finding of the Sikhakhane Report. It was the finding of the Public Protector,” Mpofu charged. Earlier during the day, things heated up as the cross-examination turned into an argumentative battle between Gordhan and Mpofu. In his early testimony, Gordhan admitted that Moyane did not lay criminal charges against him but maintained his version that Moyane’s tenure at the tax authority was only meant wholly or in part to pursue state capture. The proceedings were characterised by bitter exchanges between Gordhan and Mpofu after the legal counsel accused the minister of not giving concise responses to his questions. According to Gordhan, he told the commission that the differences between him and Moyane began after he was appointed as finance minister in 2015. He said he organised a meeting with Moyane with the view of getting information from him about the new operating model at Sars. The new operating model was introduced by Bain Consulting Agency, and Gordhan said the new model led to Sars failing to collect tax and customs duties. Gordhan said the model dismantled a lot of units which were responsible for the collection of duties. He also told the commission that a number of people, due to the introduction of the new model, had lost their jobs. During his cross-examination before lunch-time, Mpofu questioned Gordhan about his hostilities with Moyane. In his reply, he maintained that the hostilities happened after his appointment. The heated exchange did not end there as Moyane has accused Gordhan of being a racist, especially towards “African” people – a claim that he denied. Moyane also accused Gordhan of being jealous of him because he was the first Sars commissioner to collect R1 trillion in tax. Mpofu said Moyane would testify that their differences with Gordhan began during his tenure as Sars commissioner. He said Moyane would testify that Gordhan was unaccepting of his role at Sars. “Mr Moyane will testify that Gordhan was arrogant towards him. He would also testify that Mr Gordhan was a racist towards African people to deflect his own role in state capture and corruption. Mr Moyane will also testify that Gordhan was against him for blowing the whistle on the rogue unit and illegal corrupt activities at Sars, including the early retirement payout to Ivan Pillay (former Sars deputy commissioner). “Mr Moyane will also testify that he was the first Sars commissioner to collect R1 trillion in tax but Mr Gordhan did not congratulate him,” Mpofu said. In justifying allegations of racism, Mpofu said shouting down at a person of the same age like him and telling Moyane to grow up and being cheeky was proof that Gordhan was a racist. In his testimony, Gordhan denied the allegations, saying he was not racist and that was the reason he had joined the Congress Movement (ANC) and subscribes to the Freedom Charter. “It is actually Mr Moyane who disrespected me. He told me that he reports to the president. He also paid bonuses to some of his staff members when he was ordered not to. The late Auditor-General (Kimi Makwetu) lodged a complaint about the payment of the bonuses and Mr Moyane threatened to take him to court. Mr Moyane also refused to discuss measures to review the new operating model at Sars. He did not allow an inquiry into what was going (on) at Sars,” Gordhan said. A new date is expected to be announced when Moyane will continue cross-examining Gordhan. The Star