Johannesburg - Allegations of victimisation have been levelled against Ikageng police officers in North West by a sexual assault victim who was allegedly given the runaround when he tried to open a case. The officers were allegedly celebrating a birthday party of a colleague when the victim came to the Potchefstroom-based police station last week Monday. *Thabang, 22, claimed he had to wait for hours while the police were partying, and that the officers did not know how to classify his sexual assault case. “They told me straight that they didn’t know how to deal with my case. They wanted to open a case of common assault or crimen injuria. I was given a runaround with reporting the matter.” Thabang claimed the police became more reluctant to help him because of the ANC T-shirt he was wearing on the day. “One of them said because I speak English and wear an ANC T-shirt, I think I know everything.” Even more disturbing, Thabang said the police on duty opted for a birthday celebration at the station while he was made to wait. “While I was waiting for someone to come and take a statement, one of them came in with snacks and cake. I could hear that there was a celebration in one of the rooms, while I waited for over an hour.” Thabang reported the matter to the SAPS North West provincial head office. “I was then instructed to go back to the local police station. The provincial officers assured me that I will get help this time around,” he said. However, Thabang claimed police at Ikageng were furious after they discovered that he had lodged a complaint against them. According to Thabang, the statement was incorrectly written down despite explaining his sexual assault experience. “The first two paragraphs were the opposite of what I said and explained. It states that my perpetrator was playing with me, which is definitely incorrect and something I did not say. The officer forced me to put my signature and ID number on the statement, even though I tried to make her aware that the statement was wrong.” Things took a sharp turn when an obviously annoyed officer started hurling insults at Thabang. In a 30-second video captured by the victim, the irked female officer can be heard shouting insults as Thabang tries to explain that the statement does not reflect what happened. “Get out, you’re troublesome, Hey, v***sek, we are tired of you, f**k off. Do I look deaf?” the officer can be heard saying. Thabang added that he was yet to receive the case number. North West police spokesperson Colonel Adele Myburgh said they were aware of the incident. “We are still maintaining our stance about discipline. Subsequent to the incident, an officer was appointed to conduct internal investigations in terms of the SAPS discipline regulations.” Myburgh confirmed that there was a complaint against the police regarding the matter. “Action will always be taken where acts of poor service delivery and unprofessional conduct are apparent.” * Not his real name. The Star