Johannesburg - Orange Grove residents Sherley Markowitz and Mohammed Hassem wake up each morning to find parts of their homes sinking. And they go to bed at night wondering if they and their houses will be swallowed up overnight by the huge sinkhole on their properties. It is believed that neighbouring properties – including some in Houghton, which are also lying over a main pipeline – will soon face a similar fate if the city fails to take action. Markowitz and Mohammed Hassem have applied for an urgent court interdict to force the City of Joburg and/or the Joburg Roads Agency to repair the sinkhole, which is growing by the day. Markowitz, a pensioner, said she had no luck getting the city to respond to her calls for urgent attention, and has been forced to hire an attorney to fight her battle. For her own safety, she has moved out of her house into an outbuilding as she has nowhere else to go and cannot afford to rent elsewhere. The rest of the house has collapsed and she is waiting for the sinkhole to swallow the outbuilding too. She faces losing not only her home but her income, as she can no longer continue her home-based hairdressing. The boundary wall between Markowitz and Hassem’s houses has collapsed. They are expecting the sinkhole to reach his house too. Attorney Chantelle Gladwin-Wood said a portion of the city’s western channel pipeline, which runs under the Paterson Park Precinct, Houghton, Victoria and Orange Grove, had collapsed and the surrounding ground was “causing the property to cave into the subsided ground beneath it where an enormous sinkhole has formed.” Two years ago, the Rubenstein family, Markowitz’s neighbours, had a similar problem along the same pipeline. Part of their home also collapsed. After many months, the city repaired it. However, the work was not properly done and the problem has re-emerged – this time on the properties next door. “Both Markowitz and her neighbour can longer safely and lawfully inhabit their properties, given the grave risk of damage to further property and loss of life caused by the existing collapse and further imminent collapses. It’s a time bomb waiting to happen and the whole neighbouring area is at risk,” said Gladwin-Wood, adding that the city has been ignoring all pleas for repairs. With the summer rains, the problem is expected to worsen. Her concern is that entering the festive season, there will be fewer people around to aid in the event of a disaster. The urgent interdict, which is being heard in the High Court, is demanding that the city engineers (and/or other professionals) provide a report within 15 calendar days. The City of Joburg said it could not comment as the matter was being heard in court. The Star