Johannesburg - Heads are expected to roll in the Witbank General Hospital saga, when a newborn baby’s body was found rotting in the hospital’s deep freezer. Two nurses from the Mpumalanga hospital have been served with suspension letters for their alleged involvement in the incident. The Star has been informed that additional health-care personnel at the hospital will soon be suspended for their alleged negligence. The saga began on December 11 when a local woman, Cynthia Sibanyoni, gave birth to a stillborn baby after a cesarean section. In her Facebook posts, a shocked Sibanyoni said the hospital had told her that the baby was “lost” two days later when she requested the corpse for burial. Sibanyoni further alleged that she was shown a rotten baby stashed inside a non-functioning fridge. Infuriated community members marched to the hospital’s premises on Wednesday morning to express their frustrations. The province’s Health MEC, Sasekani Manzini, said the mother was already 35 weeks pregnant and was aware that she was giving birth to a stillborn child. “The foetus was then kept at the hospital over the weekend. On December 14, the woman and her family visited the hospital to collect the foetus for burial but they could not be assisted.” Manzini said the family was told to return on Tuesday, only to be given the runaround. “They still could not be assisted, and instead they were given the wrong body,” Manzini said . The Health Department is believed to be conducting its own internal investigations to decide what steps needed to be taken. Manzini condemned such incidents, stating that the department would not tolerate them. “It is unacceptable that we can misplace a foetus and not be able to account for the whereabouts of the body. “This matter must be fully investigated and consequence management must apply.” It has now emerged that two foetuses were identified at the hospital, leaving the mother in limbo as to which baby was hers. Taking to her Facebook account, the mother said the hospital informed her that she had been shown a wrong body. “Now there’s two babies, ngitraumatize shu ( I’m traumatised).” The National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union’s provincial secretary, Welcome Mnisi, was adamant that investigations into the matter would expose more people. “As a union we are concerned about the developments at the hospital. “At this stage we are still waiting for a report from our regional offices.” Mnisi said it was difficult to believe that only two nurses were implicated in the incident. “I’m of the understanding that this thing is a chain and everyone has their role to play in their respective departments at the hospital, so suspending only two nurses might not be the true reflection of the incident.” Mpumalanga police spokesperson Colonel Donald Mdhluli said: “Police have opened an inquiry with regards to the incident.” The Star