Johannesburg - Christmas has come early for children born with serious heart defects. This comes after Medipost Pharmacy, Netcare Foundation and the Maboneng Foundation raised over R700 000 for their heart surgeries. This life-saving donation will enable at least seven children to undergo crucial heart procedures this festive season. The Heart-to-Heart campaign, initiated by Medipost and Netcare, has been the driving force behind the donation. This is a corporate social investment (CSI) match-funding challenge to raise the necessary resources for life-saving operations for children born with congenital heart defects. Medipost Holdings was the first to pledge its donation when it put forward R360 000 towards the specialised procedures for paediatric cardiac patients in need, via the Maboneng Foundation, a non-profit organisation that raises funds and co-ordinates sponsorship of surgeries for children afflicted with congenital heart defects. The Netcare Foundation, which is the CSI arm of the Netcare Group, then matched the donation, doubling the initiative’s reach to positively impact children’s lives. Dr Erich Schürmann, cardiac surgeon at the Maboneng Heart and Lung Institute at Netcare Sunninghill Hospital, said there “are no words to fully capture the significance of this remarkable donation for the children born with serious heart defects”. “These children will now get the surgeries they need, thanks to Medipost Holdings and the Netcare Foundation.” According to the Maboneng Foundation, approximately 10 000 babies are born with a congenital heart defect in South Africa each year. Schürmann said only about 10% of these babies are operated on and go on to live full and healthy lives. “The disturbing reality is that only a fraction of babies born with heart defects receive the needed surgical interventions in time.” It was only through the generosity of corporates and individuals that the Maboneng Foundation was able to secure the resources needed to help more children as early as possible for optimal outcomes, he said. “While the beneficiaries aren’t old enough to realise the significance of the support yet, they will be one day, as a result of it. In the meantime, we thank the sponsors on their behalf for giving these children the ultimate gift – a chance at life.” Jacques du Plessis, managing director of Netcare’s hospital division, said cardiac surgeons, cardiologists, anaesthetists, perfusionists and allied health care professionals at the Maboneng Heart and Lung Institute have committed their time and expertise free of charge in assisting patients referred by the Maboneng Foundation. “In a year during which such life-saving procedures have virtually come to a standstill as a result of Covid-19, we felt compelled to do our bit to ensure that the life-saving work being done by this dedicated team of health-care professionals could go ahead in the coming weeks.” Du Plessis said the state-of-the-art paediatric cardiothoracic centre based at Netcare Sunninghill Hospital is the largest of its kind in Africa and treats children from all over the continent. The work of the institute has already given many highly-compromised children a chance at life. “Unfortunately, there remains an enormous need for these often highly complex paediatric heart operations for thousands of children in our country, and the region,” he said. The Star