Johannesburg  - A fight for justice by the family of a slain Joburg woman has resulted in a man being charged for murder, five years after he was let off the hook by the court. Businessman Dieter Bergs, now aged 85, will stand trial in the South Gauteng High Court, Joburg, after the murder of his wife at their Parktown North home in March 2014. He claimed Geneé Bergs, who was 70 when shot dead in bed, was killed by an intruder. Bergs claimed he heard two loud bangs while in the study room. Further, he claimed he encountered the intruder when he went to investigate and was shot in the hip. Police arrested Bergs in September 2014, after a gun found in the house by his niece linked him to the murder. Bergs had had the pistol since 1976. He told police and the media he had lost this gun and forgot about it. The murder charges against Bergs were dropped after the findings of an independent forensic ballistics expert, Wollie Wolmarans, convinced a magistrate the police’s evidence was incorrect. Wolmarans told The Star there “was not even the faintest idea” the 1976 gun fired the shots that claimed Geneé’s life. “It’s the worst I’ve ever had,” he said. But Wolmarans’s findings could not withstand an inquest, which the State held at the insistence of Geneé’s family. Concluded in August 2019, it found the murder weapon was linked to Bergs. “The findings of that inquiry was that Bergs should be charged with murder, possession of firearm and ammunition,” Gauteng spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority Phindi Mjonondwane said this week. Mjonondwane said Geneé’s family lobbied the NPA to re-open the case. “The family submitted representations to the office of the chief prosecutor of Johannesburg, Advocate (Pumeza) Futshane,” she said. “After assessment of the docket, Advocate Futshane referred the matter to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions in the Gauteng Local Division (advocate Andrew Chauke). “(Chauke) gave instructions that the matter be referred for an inquest enquiry.” Bergs was arrested last week and charged with premeditated murder, possession of firearm and ammunition, forgery and uttering. The Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court granted him R10 000 bail. A relative of Geneé, who asked not to be named, said the family had always believed Bergs was guilty. The relative said: “She had a big investment (of between R4 million and R5m) that she was expecting. How can she die two days before the payout of that investment?” She said the fight for justice was long, but worth it. “We’ve really battled to get justice. “Besides going to the NPA, we even wrote to the police’s national commissioner several times.” Bergs will appear in the High Court in Joburg on January 22. The Star