Johannesburg - In an effort to ensure that every woman gets immediate safety and assistance from domestic violence, the National Shelter Movement of South Africa (NSMSA) has launched a 24-hour toll free helpline. As part of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children, the umbrella body, which represents nearly 100 shelters for victims of abuse and their children, launched its 24-hour toll-free shelter helpline in Cape Town on Tuesday. The helpline, which starts operating today, serves women by helping them find a conveniently-located place of safety from domestic abuse, provide information about obtaining protection orders and advice on how to deal with the police. NSMSA board member Sharon Kouta said the launch was both a celebration and an indictment that the shelter helpline service was needed. “The reality is that our women and children are not safe, and home is the place where they are least safe,” she said. Kouta said shelters provide immediate sanctuary and protection for women and their children and offered a place of reflection and support. “These benefits are not only for the individual women and children but to society more broadly. Enabling women to leave their abusive partners contributes to reducing women’s future use of health facilities, social development services as well as the use of courts and the policing services,” she said. Kouta said the helpline will draw from NSMSA’s specific knowledge and experience with shelters and tap into their network of partners to ensure women receive assistance. Western Cape MEC for social development Sharna Fernandez said eight of the gender-based violence hot spots were in that province. “I often question what has happened to our humanity when we look at the brutal and senseless killings our children had to endure at the hands of perpetrators. It’s deeply disturbing,” Fernandez said. “We need to start the conversation with … young boys. We cannot wait until an act has been penetrated before we do something. We need to teach them what consent is about and that no is no,” she said. The helpline’s toll free number is 0800 001 005. The Star