Johannesburg - WOMan Radio was a concept Yvonne Chaka Chaka came up with in 2016. In 2018 she researched various ways to bring the project to life and ended up going the online route after getting encouragement from several people, including Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams. “Data is not cheap in South Africa, but she (Stella) said my reach is beyond South Africa and I thought that was a great idea. We then launched, I got the licence on IOS and Android.” The women-led online radio station officially launched in October and this week a billboard was revealed in Joburg South with the help of the Joburg metro. The singer and songwriter said it was time for women to talk and this was a platform that would allow them to do just that. “Through conversations we can talk about issues pertaining to women and also empower ourselves as women and conscientise men. So, this is a platform to give us a wake-up call, to say let’s talk about things that are taboo. Once we are comfortable as women, it will also become easier for men.” The humanitarian said no mother wanted to carry a boy child for nine months who would later turn out to be an abuser or murderer. “No parent anticipates that. We need to start talking about things that are taboo, things that are not spoken about and give women a chance to speak about these things. Sometimes people aren’t aware that they are in abusive relationships and need to be shown.” She added that the platform was not there to bash men, but to rather empower everybody. “We are going to have women giving their views from across platforms. From disability and albinism to business and domestic workers. They will have a platform here to talk about their problems and solutions. WOMan Radio will also be having people from Uganda, Kenya and all over the continent. I think when we all come together, we can find solutions.” Chaka Chaka said it was important not to judge people. “We need to educate each other. There won’t be any sugar coating, we are going to say it as it is. “We have had several guests speaking their truth like Cheryl Zondi. We had a lady from Zimbabwe come in who had run away from home when she realised she was HIV+. She has been living with HIV for 20 years and wanted to share her story. It has been amazing getting the support and reach.” The current line-up features Nomsa Mazwai’s The Spear, Chaka Chaka’s Couch Chat, Break-free with Dr Siya Mjwara, and Gabaza Tiba Woman’s Worldview. Luyanda Duma hosts the Young People’s corner. The Star