Johannesburg - A former Ekurhuleni metro police superintendent found guilty in May 2019 of raping two Soweto children will take his fight for a lenient sentence into next year. Adam Cummings, 54, who lured young girls to secluded areas and raped them, has managed to keep the sentencing proceedings in his case at a standstill for most of this year, as he wanted the State to hand over the transcripts of his trial to his lawyer before the sentencing could begin. Cummings changed lawyers ahead of the proceedings, set to unfold at the South Gauteng High Court. This forced the State to avail the records of the trial, in a form of a transcript, to his new lawyer. A full set of transcripts had to include all the testimonies and arguments that were submitted during a marathon trial. Defence lawyers needed the transcripts to work out arguments strong enough to convince the judge to deviate from the set minimum sentences. The minimum sentence in child rapes was life imprisonment. The sentencing proceedings have been postponed several times, due to the unavailability of the transcripts. On Wednesday, Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng heard that the transcripts were still not available. Prosecutor Nonkululeko Serepo told the court she had agreed on a new date with the lawyer, because the transcripts were still not ready. Mokgoatlheng found Cummings guilty along with an accomplice, Tebogo Johanna Maregele, who lured the victims. Mokgoatlheng found Cummings guilty of raping two girls, aged 9 and 15, and on a count of human trafficking. Maregele was found guilty of being an accomplice in the rape of the nine-year-old and on counts of sexual exploitation and human trafficking. The girl was lured by Maregele in Moroka, Soweto. Cummings bought food for the child and, with Maregele, drove her to a secluded area. Cummings raped her there, while Maregele held her. He then gave her R50 to silence her, but she told her mother. The 15-year-old was raped by Cummings twice in a secluded veld. He claimed that she was his girlfriend and the sex was consensual. But the child, who testified that Cummings raped her on both occasions, emerged as a reliable witness before Mokgoatlheng. He agreed to postpone the case to January 22, 2021. “For the reason that the record is not yet available, the matter is postponed to the 22nd of January. You remain in custody,” he told the pair. The Star