Johannesburg - A seven-year-old girl was severely injured during a shooting in Westbury, west of Joburg, this past weekend. Milandre van Rensburg, 7, was at her home in Westbury when she got shot multiple times by stray bullets fired by three men who opened fire outside her house. Her mother Michaela van Rensburg, 25, told The Star that Milandre was shot by stray bullets while a friend of hers was platting her hair on the front stoep. "We had friends over on Friday and as we were sitting outside, my son who is Milandre's younger brother kept asking for cool drink. That's when I stepped in the house to get him some. My boyfriend followed us in. On our way back that's when we heard the gun shots ringing like crackers," Van Rensburg said. According to Van Rensburg, that's when her boyfriend and Milandre's father ran outside to go fetch Milandre. "When my boyfriend went outside, he found Milandre laying on the floor just next to the door as if she was running in the direction of the house, I think more than 26 shots rang," Van Rensburg said. It was only when the shooting had stopped did the young parents inspect their daughter. Van Rensburg said she noticed blood on her daughter's thigh. "She was shot three times, one bullet grazed her thigh, the other went passed her hand fracturing her index, middle finger and ring finger. She was also shot on her bladder with the bullet exiting on her other side," Van Rensburg said. Gauteng police spokesperson Bragadier Mathepelo Peters said in a statement: "Police on the said evening responded to a complaint of a shooting and on arrival at the scene in Andrew Lally and Tullip Street, found two males, a woman and a 7-year old injured, with gunshot wounds. “It is reported that at least three armed suspects wearing facial masks or balaclavas, alighted from a car and fired shots indiscriminately at people who were attending a birthday party, and then fled the scene. The victims were rushed to hospital for medical attention, and the fourth victim succumbed to injuries on Saturday morning." Van Rensburg said she had never been so scared in her life but she drew strength by seeing how strong her daughter was on the way to the hospital. "Milandre was very strong and I drew strength from that she was awake throughout her trip to the hospital. Even as she went through surgery, I was very calm as doctors kept giving us feedback of her well-being and commended her strength." According to Van Rensburg, her daughter remembers what happened and keeps asking her mom why did they shoot at them. "After all the surgeries she underwent, that lasted for 6 hours, my daughter remembers what happened. She kept asking me, ’mommy, why did they shoot at us, who were they looking for. Did they not see me at the gate’," Van Rensburg said. Although police said the motive for the shooting is yet to be determined, the families said they believed it is gang related. Talking to the mother of the deceased, Veronica Buys, who lost her only child Damien Buys to the shooting, said: "I am very hurt, these people took my child from me, they took a father for two kids. I prayed so hard that my son could not die in this manner and my biggest fear came true." Four other people were shot in Westbury in June this year. This includes popular barber Kirsten May who was shot and killed while on his way home with a friend. Police urged anyone with information that could lead to the apprehension of the suspects to contact police at Sophiatown or their nearest police station. The Star