Johannesburg - More than 40 interdisciplinary artists have come together to contribute to a campaign to address the impact of gender-based violence using musical, dance, visual, narrative, poetry and conceptual pieces. The online campaign called Body of Evidence, is starring more than 40 interdisciplinary established artists as well as new talents. The aim of the campaign is to galvanise a new way of thinking about our humanity and responsibility to each other regarding gender-based violence. Celebrated arts and performance specialist, UCT academic and co-artistic director of Magnet Theatre Mandla Mbothwe, together with Mud & Fire Parables form the driving force behind the campaign and co-curated with Qondiswa James, an award-winning artist, performer and activist. Mbothwe told The Star on Thursday that Body of Evidence had been working closely with emotional wellness consultants, Procare both in creating content and in directing support for those needing it through a helpline. “There’s no time to waste. Given the extreme urgency of gender-based violence, especially femicide, the tone of the communication is direct, confrontational and visceral,” he said. Mbothwe added that the campaign was an opportunity for the artists and communities to introspect about gender-based violence when it came to the performing arts industry. The interdisciplinary artists who have contributed to the campaign thus far to Body of Evidence and continue to do so include actress Amy Wilson, actress and musician Babalwa Makwetu; author, columnist and playwright Chase Rhys; actor, physical theatre performer, and arts activist Faniswa Yisa; actor, writer and musician Gideon Lombard; actress Masasa Mbangeni; actress Rehane Abrahams; dancer and choreographer Tanya Arshamian; musician Thandeka Dladla and dancer and choreographer Vuyolwethu Nompetsheni. “All the artists, each in their own way, depict how the societal scar of gender-based violence spares no culture or community in our country. From the most powerful to the most marginalised, South Africans are harming each other. Anger and physical force are masking frustrations, hopelessness, self-loathing and helplessness,” Mbothwe said. He said 90% of the campaign would be demonstrated online on the website www.bodyofevidence.co.za as well as associated social media platforms. He added that the campaign would live well into 2021 and beyond, and the website would house an e-book that would allow visitors to contribute their own creative responses to gender-based violence and femicide. “We want the Body of Evidence to serve South African communities and remain a repository for their stories on an ongoing basis … We are putting a call out there for everyone to join our fight. This is a collective effort. “We are working with others and in turn, ask others to join us,” he said. Mbothwe added that art was a good tool to discuss societal issues because it was a form of expression that went beyond the brain and touched people’s hearts. “The artist’s way of communication communicates with the wholeness of a human being … It’s a powerful tool that engages with intellect, spirituality, emotions and engages all senses of a human being,” he said. The Star