Johannesburg - When Tshediso Mahange was just 13, he had endured years of emotional and mental abuse at the hands of his stepfather. That’s when he made a life altering decision: the teenager decided to pack his bags. With nowhere to go and no one to support him, he moved into a tiny informal structure not far from his former home. By himself in his shack in Tsietsi in Katlehong, Ekurhuleni, Mahange was surrounded by crime, gangs and drugs. The growing influence of boys his age recruited by gang leaders to lead a life of crime in exchange for money was laid bare, but he was determined to chart a new path for his life. And his love for maths and science helped him. Mahange will join hundreds of UCT graduates in a virtual graduation celebratory event – the first of its kind for the university since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. He will receive his Bachelor’s degree in business science with a major in finance from the Faculty of Commerce next Tuesday. “This is a bitter-sweet moment for me. I arrived at UCT a few years ago as a sad, lonely young boy. I didn’t have what my peers had, which was the support of a loving family – I had no one. But I was determined to do my best and to succeed,” he said. Living by himself in a community ridden with crime and gangs was difficult, he said. To escape peer pressure, he started his day at the crack of dawn. By 6am, he entered the school gates and spent a few hours studying before his official school day. After school, he would spend hours in the library. “I did this so I didn’t have to be near those negative influences. I was asked numerous times to join the neighbourhood gang, but I always declined. I didn’t want that life.” Because of Mahange’s love for maths, a career in finance was always top of his mind. And he was “ecstatic” when UCT notified him of his successful application. However, arriving at the university in orientation week in 2015 was like a dagger to his heart – his happiness and excitement vanished. “As I walked on to campus with nothing but the contents in my backpack, I felt sad and alone. I saw other first-year students surrounded by their families. Suddenly, I felt the weight of my lonely childhood. I realised I had no family to share my success with, and I spent my first day in tears.” But thanks to UCT’s mentorship programme and with the help of a faculty psychologist, Mahange learned to face the demons of his past head on. He also made a conscious decision to immerse himself in his studies and to do well. “When I made this mind shift, everything started to fall into place, and it became a bit easier for me. I began to deal with things while focused on my end goal,” he said. Mahange said his biggest dream is to establish a private school for children from disadvantaged backgrounds. “I will work to attain it,” he said. He has already started maths and science tutoring NPO as a first step. The Star