Johannesburg - Pleading poverty, the Road Accident Fund (RAF) wants the North Gauteng High Court to come to its rescue and bar sheriffs from attaching its properties for failure to pay successful claimants. Collins Letsoalo, chief executive of the embattled RAF, admitted in an affidavit that the statutory agency sought “what may be regarded as an extraordinary relief”. The RAF was off to the court this week to plead for an order giving it up to half a year to pay off successful claimants. Lawyers should not bring execution proceedings against the RAF within 180 days of successful claims, Letsoalo pleaded in papers. The RAF was bringing its application against the entire legal fraternity and sheriffs. It cited the Legal Practice Council and the Board of Sheriffs as first and second respondents. Absa was a third respondent because the RAF wanted the bank to allow it to continue using its account. The majority of the 15 listed respondents were law firms and sheriffs that had won orders to attach and remove the RAF’s properties. The RAF wanted them interdicted from effecting the orders. These groups include Durban-based law firm Godla and Partners, which obtained a warrant of execution against the RAF over its failure to pay out over R2 million. Godla and Partners instructed the sheriff to attach the RAF’s properties on October 28. Sheriffs in towns including Pretoria, Cape Town and East London have also attached the RAF’s office properties in recent months for non-payments. Earlier last week, the Legal Practice Council issued a notice to law firms that the RAF’s urgent application would be heard on Wednesday and Thursday. Letsoalo said in his affidavit that the RAF was too cash-strapped and the attachment of its assets threatened its existence. Drawing its budget largely from the R1.97 per litre fuel levy, the RAF claimed to have incurred a shortfall of about R7 billion in the past three months. “The RAF is experiencing severe financial difficulties that have been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic,” Letsoalo said. “The pandemic has generally caused severe strain on the economy. The RAF is no exception. However, its liabilities continue to grow. If not managed in the manner sought in this application, there is a real risk of the RAF’s finances collapsing completely, or the RAF itself collapsing.” Letsoalo insisted that the RAF had no desire to avoid fulfilling its liabilities towards victims of road accidents and their dependants. “It is motivated by the need to be assisted by the courts in managing and fulfilling such liabilities,” he said. This assistance could come in the form of an order that sets out an “interim dispensation” that afforded the RAF “an opportunity to meet claims within a period of 180 days without the threat of execution proceedings”. Letsoalo said: “The RAF seeks a dispensation that will, for a temporary period of time (ie 180 days), suspend the rights of successful claimants and their legal representatives to institute enforcement proceedings. “If the RAF fails to meet its liabilities to the victims, their dependants and their legal representatives within the period of 180 days, enforcement proceedings may be instituted.” The Star