The Department of Social Development has relaunched its gender-based violence command centre (GBVCC) aimed at curbing the abuse and killing of women and children. This comes after radical change was called for as a result of the centre fielding about 12 000 calls within two weeks at the beginning of the lockdown in March. The GBVCC, which already boasts newly recruited and trained social worker supervisors and additional trauma training for social workers, has officially opened its new premises in Salvokop, Tshwane. The relaunch saw Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu and Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola leading the ribbon-cutting ceremony as part of the annual 16 Days of Activism for no Violence Against Women and Children. Among those in attendance were Deputy Minister of Social Development Noxolo Kiviet, Gauteng MEC for Social Development Dr Nomathemba Mokgethi, National Development Agency chief executive Thamo Mzobe and UN resident co-ordinator Nardos Bekele-Thomas. Mokgethi decried the killing of women and children and cited the recent rape of two minors in a Pretoria hotel and the latest crime and murder statistics as examples of the extent of the country’s GBV crisis. “One in three women are sexually or physically abused and killed by a stranger, family member or intimate partner. At least 2 695 women were murdered in the past year alone. Schools have become hot spots of rape and abuse of children. I agree with the president when he says GBV has become a twin pandemic alongside Covid-19,” Mokgethi said. Bekele-Thomas said witnessing women and children going through abuse, violence, and murder at the hands of men was proof that the moral fibre of society had degenerated. “The situation has become worse than it was 40 years ago. As government leaders, we need to use our resources to end poverty, inequality and solve problems associated with GBV,” she said. Lamola said it was critical for the legislative framework to be amended to allow for responsive interventions in the fight against GBV, including supporting civil society. “Victims of GBV should be able to access a responsive justice system, which is why we welcome the three amendments of policies aimed at closing the many gaps that exist as well as the allocation of R1.6 billion in the fight against GBV,” Lamola said. Zulu said it was important to confront male privilege where boys dominate girls from an early age to “societal expectation and patriarchal structure”. “GBV should be confronted and behavioural change should begin at a young age. As government, our interventions and communications need to be well-co-ordinated…” Zulu said. The Star