Johannesburg - The award-winning musician, Tresor, was hijacked, kidnapped and robbed in Johannesburg on Thursday night. Tresor, whose real name is Mukengerwa Tresor Riziki, was hijacked and kidnapped in Linden. He was driving a white Range Rover Evoque with a registration of DM 08 GP. The car has yet to be recovered. Taking to social media on Friday, Tresor, who was born in the DRC and made his break in South Africa a few years ago with hit songs such as Never Let Me Go and Remedy. He said he was with fellow musician Batundi when they were hijacked. He said the suspects held them hostage and only released them at about 8am at a hostel in Soweto.  “The perpetrators held us at gunpoint, handcuffed us and kept us in the boot for hours on end as they cleaned out our bank accounts.  “By God’s grace, we have survived and we are alright. They have unfortunately taken the vehicle along with other items that were in the car.  “The vehicle is currently still being tracked in an attempt to recover it. Please be on the lookout for a white Range Rover Evoque with the number plate DM 08 ZC GP,” he said writing on Instagram.  Police said they were investigating a case of hijacking.  Last Night, whilst dropping off fellow artist Batundi from my label Jacquel Music Group, in Linden - I was involved in a car hijacking and we were both kidnapped and robbed in Linden. The incident took place in the evening at 8:30pm. We only got released at approximately 4am in a hostel area in Soweto. The perpetrators held us at gunpoint, hand cuffed us and kept us in the boot for hours on end as they cleaned out our bank accounts. By Gods grace, we have survived and we are alright. They have unfortunately taken the vehicle along with other items that were in the car. The vehicle is currently still being tracked in an attempt to recover it. Please be on the look out for a white Range Rover Evoque with the number plate DM 08 ZC GP. Please contact Linden Police on 011 888 9211 if you have any information. All your help is appreciated. Much Love, TRESOR. || @Jacquelmusicgroup @TheAloreGroup A post shared by  TRESOR RIZIKI (@tresorofficial) on Feb 7, 2020 at 2:29am PST  