By Futhi Mtoba Farewell to Baba Mlangeni. He was characterised by many virtues and traits in his eventful life, but with him gone one surely sticks out: integrity. My glimpse into the soul of anti-apartheid stalwart and Rivonia Trialist, Andrew Mlangeni, was on a golf course just after 2010. What an honour! I love golf for its leadership lessons. In golf you compete against yourself. If you decide to cheat, you will only be cheating yourself and arresting your own growth. This brief and fond encounter with the departed beloved resident of Dube, Soweto, and Nelson Mandela’s neighbour on Robben Island left me in awe of his youthful energy and dexterity on the course. What happens on the golf course stays on the golf course, so you are not getting anything from me about who won that day. In response to my question about how he kept himself so young, he shared a few tips, but it was clear that the man’s golf acumen went back to the late 1930s in Bethlehem in the Free State. After moving there to attend school following the death of his father, he mingled – as a caddy - with greats like Bobby Locke, who was South African and world golf champion at the time. The political reality of South Africa, however, would not let the man follow what might have been his path to golfing stardom. Instead, he assumed many identities to evade arrest. He is described as “the man of many names” by www.uj.ac.za, including Percy or Mokete Mokoena. After his training in guerrilla warfare in Communist China in 1962, the profile highlights his role as Joe Modise’s replacement who had to pose as a reverend while recruiting and transporting volunteers for military training outside the country. My meeting with him came long after he had done 26 years of his life sentence and had already served as a member of parliament for years. His commitment to serving humankind did not end with him retiring from parliament, and this stem of his life might be the most important, given where we are as a country. He was the inaugural Chairman of the Integrity Commission of the ANC, which was announced at the party’s 53rd elective congress in Mangaung in 2012. The work of the Commission was not plain-sailing for Mlangeni, but he remained steadfast, strenuously calling out his own party on numerous occasions. At this stage when our country needs to redeem itself and recapture the spirit of a winning nation by prioritising governance and ethics, the departure of stalwarts like Andrew Mlangeni is our wake-up call and a beacon. In bidding farewell to Prisoner 467/64, the leaders in democratic South Africa, both private and public sector, need to go back to the ethos personified by Isithwalandwe Andrew Mlangeni. This entails being principled, working hard, staying committed to a cause, being disciplined, displaying moral rectitude, honesty and sacrifice. It also implies learning to always operate just like the “backroom boy” – as he liked to refer to himself – by putting people first in the manner he did all 95 years of his life. As in his favourite sport, golf, integrity is everything. The ability to do the right thing when nobody is watching, as the saying goes, can neither be bought nor sold. The same goes for our national pride. If we fail to get back to the core principles of Batho Pele, it will not be for lack of role models like Andrew Mlangeni. My deepest condolences to his family, friends and all the people of our beloved South Africa. Futhi Mtoba is Co-Founder of TEACH South Africa, Trustee of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, Former Chairman of Deloitte Southern Africa and Past of President of BUSA.