By Editorial We have reached the point where even the dulcet tones of President Cyril Ramaphosa at 8pm on a Sunday night cannot explain away the nonsensical regulations which have seen senior government officials turning into pretzels when trying to explain a new policy direction. While Ramaphosa has assured us on numerous occasions that his government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic was informed by the available science, some decisions beggar belief. How else does one, scientifically, explain the new rules on minibus taxis after months of being told to maintain physical distance, and wear masks? Since last week minibus taxis have been allowed to load to 100% of their capacity, in a reversal from previous government edicts on South Africa’s most popular mode of public transport. Initially the government had insisted that minibus taxis could only be filled to 70% of capacity, but after complaints from the industry, and demands that it also be included in the R500billion Covid-19 relief budget, the government finally relented. While South Africa’s response to the pandemic has been better than that of First World countries, many in the government would admit that there have been missteps. Like we have said previously in this column, Covid-19 has exposed the cumulative effects of years of bad governance by the ANC; just look at what’s happening in the Eastern Cape. The ruling on the minibus taxi industry is one such instance of bad governance where the ruling party seems to make it up as it goes along. We can’t demand that children in school are separated by two metres, but then send them home in a minibus taxi where they are packed cheek by jowl. South Africans demand coherent, consistent policies. The frustration from many is due to the realisation that the chances of us returning to a “normal” existence are slim to none; this year it will be Covid-19 until another coronavirus rears its head. The business of leading is tough, just ask US President Donald Trump, who is having weekly meltdowns in response to the effects of this coronavirus. Fortunately for us, Ramaphosa has been calm under pressure, but while his words have been soothing, South Africans want the assurance that tomorrow will be better than today.