The Special Investigation Unit (SIU) has wasted no time in going after looters of the R500 billion Covid-19 relief fund. President Cyril Ramaphosa signed a proclamation last week authorising the SIU to investigate allegations of fraud and corruption that have been raised about the looting of the emergency fund. The number of companies linked to the suspected theft was fast closing on 100 on Monday. SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said: “We are overwhelmed with reports of allegations from various departments around the country. “These keep on increasing on a daily basis so there is no exact figure of how many they are.” Kganyago emphasised the importance of validating the allegations before investigating: “We will not compromise the quality of investigations but we are hopeful that we will be able to conclude much sooner.” He said their investigations include cases of dodgy food parcel tenders, UIF Covid-19 TERS and PPE procurement services. Kganyago said they were investigating 90 companies that were awarded tenders within the Gauteng Health Department. Meanwhile, self-proclaimed South Africa-based prophet Shepherd Bushiri and his wife Mary Bushiri appeared in the high court in Pretoria on Monday on charges including money laundering and fraud involving more than R15 million and contravention of the country’s Prevention of Organised Crime Act. The North Gauteng regional spokesperson for the director of public prosecutions, Lumka Mahanjana, said the matter was postponed to October 16. The leader of the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church and his wife were released by the Pretoria Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in February last year on R100 000 bail each, after spending days in prison. The cases against them were later transferred to the high court. The couple is also accused of contravening exchange control regulations for paying cash (about R19m) for a private jet. During their appearances last year, thousands of Bushiri’s followers – who refer to him as “Major 1” – picketed outside court, asserting his innocence. Before their appearance on Monday, Bushiri’s spokesperson, Ephraim Nyondo, had urged church members attending proceedings to adhere to Covid-19 regulations. Additional reporting by African News Agency (ANA)