By Bongani Mdakane There is a new twist to the R15-million subsidy that the Department of Education in Gauteng has withheld for three independent schools. The department’s head, Edward Mosuwe, wrote an email to MEC Panyaza Lesufi on May 29 confirming that the money for Isikhumbuzo Secondary, Solwazi Primary and New Generation Combined had been released. However, the schools’ lawyers have disputed these claims. In the email, which The Star has seen, Mosuwe told Lesufi that the funds were paid to the schools. The email was sent to the MEC before the schools approached the South Gauteng High Court demanding the funds. The department, which is investigating allegations of looting of the funds meant to also procure PPEs for the schools, has appealed against the court ruling. The email sent to Lesufi by Mosuwe on May 29 partly reads: “Dear MEC, the Directorate of Independent Schools will address this matter. This is one of the schools where we were withholding the subsidy because of governance challenges. However, we have released their subsidy with a view to assist them to get Covid-19 compliant and be ready to release the learners from June 1, 2020.” Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said: “The schools’ budgets have not been channelled elsewhere. The money is awaiting approval, pending the finalisation of the forensic investigation of allegations of fraud and adverse financial irregularities. “The HoD did not lie to the MEC as the email in question was addressing the schools that were fully compliant. A forensic investigation which is going to determine whether he approves payment or not is under way. Hence, we feel that the court case was rather prematurely instituted.” The schools’ lawyers are seeking clarity about the status of the money. The schools’ legal representative, Zaheer Moosa of Peer Carrim Attorneys, said: “Our clients deny receiving any subsidy payments from the department thus far. The fact that an email dated May 29, 2020 was sent by the HoD to the MEC confirming payment has raised a R15m question, which is: Who is this person whom R15m was paid to?” asked Moosa. “At this stage, we can’t speculate as to where this money went to, but this is shocking. From a legal perspective, this changes everything and further tilts the scales of justice in our favour. We will have to bring this to the court’s attention.” Gauteng DA MPL of Education, Khume Ramulifho, said he had written to Lesufi following allegations of financial irregularities and asked him to investigate. “The HoD has indicated that Isikhumbuzo Secondary School was paid the subsidy but is still under investigation. “I’m not sure if the school hasn’t received the money. However, based on the allegations that the above- mentioned schools have not received their subsidies while the HoD confirmed payment will need full investigation,” said Ramulifho.