Restaurant owners and their employees took to the streets on Wednesday to protest against imposed Covid19 lockdown restrictions which have impeded their businesses. Under the current lockdown alert level 3, these establishments aren’t allowed to serve alcohol and should observe the 9pm curfew. The Restaurant Association of South Africa (Rasa) held the “1 million on the streets” protests countrywide to highlight the hardships restaurants are facing. In some areas they dragged their tables and chairs outside, blocking roads. Rasa claims that almost 400 000 restaurant jobs could be lost because of the strict regulations. Over 100 workers from different restaurants gathered in Parktown North, Joburg, for a peaceful protest around midday. Stanley Mpofu, waiter at The Local Grill, said that the restrictions have chased away customers from restaurants. “Being at a restaurant is all about the experience, entertainment and the service now some of those elements are missing. Some customers find it pointless to come have a meal without their favourite wine or beer. We also survive on tips, so without customers financially, we are hurt,” he said. Branchini La-La, owner of Ristorante La Trinita in Midrand, said there was no collaboration with the government. “I have lived in this country all my life and honestly I don’t know what happened to ubuntu. I put all my life savings into this business so that we can stay afloat. We have met the government halfway in fighting the pandemic. But what do we get in return? “How on earth do you introduce 9pm curfews when restaurants are also trying to fight their feet? Remember, before we close for the day we should deeply cleanse the facility and evaluate the stock, so basically our businesses must shut down at 7pm, because our staff members still need to get home before that curfew.” Paul Harmse, Papachinos Boksburg senior manager, said customers have been sceptical of restaurant visits since they started operating again. “Yes, we do abide by the health protocols but it’s just not the same. We also need to be heard by the government,” said Harmse. Similar scenes were seen at different areas in KwaZulu-Natal Dressed in their uniforms, restaurant owners and staff carried placards and took to street corners in uMhlanga while the public hooted and waved in support. Butcher Boys uMhlanga has not opened since the lockdown. Business partners Shane Grove and Lee Middlemas said they hoped the ban and the curfew could be lifted so they could operate again. “People don’t really want to come out for just steak and a Coke or a milkshake. We get most of our bookings when people phone and ask us directly if we serve any alcohol or not. If we say we’re not serving any alcohol, people don’t want to book,” said Grove. He said if they could not serve people, they could not afford to pay their staff. In Cape Town, Christina Semczyszyn, head chef at Tjin Tjing House, said the’ve had to let go of 10 staff members. “It’s a big issue for the whole restaurant industry and it’s affecting us all,” she said