By Editorial Have South Africans become so disillusioned with the high levels of corruption in state entities, empty promises by politicians and the raging inequality, that they have lost their spirit of ubuntu? Have they lost the willpower to ensure that “the social-cohesion project” is carried throughout the years for the benefit of future generations? Over the past few days, it has been disheartening to observe the backlash over the news that Mineral Resources and Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe and Minister of Employment and Labour Thulas Nxesi tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago and have been admitted to hospital. Hardly 24 hours after the news emerged, a handful of South Africans took to social media, asking if the ministers had been admitted to public hospitals. Others seemed unsympathetic to their plight and unconcerned about their condition. On Wednesday afternoon, Mantashe posted on social media he was admitted to a public hospital for “medical attention and monitoring”, adding: “I am doing well. Thanks to the health-care workers. Thanks to your messages of support for my family and all persons who have been infected and affected by this virus.” A Twitter user responded: “I’m glad that you’re doing well... but you should have been admitted (to) one of the hospitals in the Eastern Cape.” Another user wrote: “Let’s wish him well right now and immediately after he has recovered he will need to tell us which ‘Public Hospital’ he was admitted to. I bet he is going to Mantash.” There has been debate about politicians shunning state services. Some have been berated for taking their children to private schools. On the other hand, some have pointed out the fact that public servants and those who form part of the Cabinet should be able to access private health care as they can afford it. But it appears that the issue at play is greater than whether ministers use state hospitals or schools. The snide comments indicate the masses are tired of receiving sub-standard service delivery from the government. Their comments are a cry for help. Politicians need to change the manner in which they deliver services to the people and should be accountable – or else the people will turn against their leaders and the government.