Crime experts have applauded the police for the swift breakthrough rescue of a prominent Indian businessman from an alleged kidnapping syndicate. Three men appeared at the Johannesburg Magistrate Court on Monday in connection with the abduction of a 72-year-old Indian-national businessman who was kidnapped on July 2 and rescued by the police last Friday morning. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Phindi Louw Mjonondwane confirmed that Ricardo Uzair Sasman, Hassen Raees Muhammed and Lebogang Gift Mamabolo were charged with kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances, extortion, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. Their case was postponed to Monday, August 3 for a formal bail application. On July 23, members of various units of the police, the Hawks and Fidelity’s Specialised Intervention Unit uncovered an alleged kidnapping syndicate at a house in Kliprivier. The five men who were subsequently arrested included Sasman, Muhammed and Mamabolo as well as two other suspects who were charged for unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. The suspects also appeared at Palm Ridge Magistrate Court on Monday. The following morning, the Indian businessman was found safely and rescued by the police in the early hours on Friday. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo told The Star on Monday that he could not reveal how the businessman was rescued to protect the investigation but revealed that the police were on the kidnappers’ trail since the kidnapping was reported. “He (the businessman) was kidnapped on July 2, and a few days later, they reported it to the police and through our investigations. We have been monitoring them, and we subsequently arrested them on Thursday, and I think they ran scared overnight and we rescued him in Kensington. The suspect that was with him fled,” he said. Mjonondwane said that while the businessman was held captive, the accused allegedly demanded a ransom of millions from his family and allegedly withdrew thousands of cash from his bank account. Naidoo added that the businessman was found unharmed. However, he was taken to the hospital for a thorough medical examination as a precautionary measure. On Sunday, four further suspects, including the home owner’s wife, were arrested at the alleged kidnapping syndicate house in Kliprivier. “People were seen loading vehicles with stuff and furniture. We mobilised the local tactical response team and members of the local police station to go there, and we arrested the occupants of the house. We charged them for defeating the ends of justice, but they were released on Sunday night,” Naidoo said. The brigadier added police were still determining whether the four suspects who were arrested on Sunday were connected to the businessman’s kidnapping. @Chulu_M