The feuding factions of the International Pentecostal Holiness Church (IPHC) have called a truce in their leadership battle. This comes following mediation by the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission). Earlier this month, congregants, including women and children, were taken hostage by attackers in Zuurbekom, Westonaria. Five people were shot dead following a factional battle at the headquarters of the church and 41 people were arrested. There has been bitter conflict to succeed former Comforter Glayton Modise, who died in 2016, between his two sons Tshepiso Modise and Leonard Modise, and Michael Sandlana, reportedly Modise’s son out of wedlock - to take over the reins of the church. The matter is under a court process at the high court. Following the incident, the CRL Rights Commission brought the various involved parties together from July 22-24 for fact finding and mediation. “It became clear to the CRL Rights Commission that the lack of a clear succession plan in the church is one of the main contributing factors of the conflict,” the commission said on Sunday. An agreement was reached during the meetings that each group or church would remain where they were currently stationed subject to the leadership court case. “The groups have to respect each other; and no leader should incite or instigate any form of violence towards the other parties. Each group (must) uphold the agreement entered into by their respective legal teams, before the court, as mandated by each church,” the CRL Commission said. It was also agreed that all churches converge annually at the headquarters in Zuurbekom for church rituals and all leaders meet with other leaders willing to co-operate with one another. The 41 suspects who were arrested in connection with the attack were expected to appear in the Westonaria Magistrate's Court on Monday to f ace charges of murder, attempted murder and malicious damage to property. Their bail application was postponed on July 22 after an employee at the court tested positive for Covid-19. @Chulu_M