Master KG's ringtone is of his monster hit Jerusalema which has now reached the 50 million views milestone on YouTube. A feat very few South Africans have managed to attain, Master KG has taken it in his stride. Jerusalema has taken on a life of its own and solidified the Tzaneen star as a sure-fire hitmaker. The 24-year-old, whose real name is Kgaogelo Moagi, says he has loved music since he was a 10-year-old listening to the now late artist Boju Mujo. “He was from the Limpopo and he inspired me a lot. In 2013 I got a computer and was trained by two local guys who had software for making beats. About two years later my beats were making sense.” Master KG only became mainstream in 2018 but in 2015 he had a few songs that were popular in taverns and other local spots in Limpopo. “I actually had a beat for Skeleton Move that I did in 2015 then it became popular so I remade it in 2018, featured Zanda and re-released it.” Whenever he makes his songs, he never has a specific aim for them. “It's never to say the song must perform in a specific way. It's just me and making beats in my style.” For Jerusalema he wanted something spiritual for the song. He worked with Nomcebo Zikode and they worked around a few ideas to lay down the first part of the song. “She then went home and we posted the clip online and that's when people started asking for us to release the song. I called her back and we laid more ideas and vocals to the song. Ever since its release, it has just become something else.” The dance challenges started trending locally in December and earlier this year another challenge started in Mongolia that went viral. It has reached countries like Italy, France, the US, Brazil, India and China and has also inspired different cover versions. “People started following it from the Mongolia challenge. It was around May when it hit TikTok and people were doing the dance. That's when I thought to even do a remix with Burna Boy and take the song to another level as it was getting global recognition.” "It was not difficult at all to get Burna Boy on to the remix as he already had the song on his own playlist. “He is one of the humblest guys I have ever met in my career. I sent him the beat and he was done within 24 hours. He knew the song already and loved it.” Jerusalema has also secured the spot as the fourth most-searched song on the app Shazam the world over. Master KG describes Khelobedu House as a mixture of modern house music and his local northern Sotho tongue. “It's a mix of beats and samples that are ‘Bolobedufied’ with a touch of modern house styles. There are a lot of sounds in Limpopo and this is a blend of them.” He released his album, which the popular title track is named after, in January. “I am busy working on a rework called Jerusalema Deluxe. It will be new songs added to the current album which will be released in September.” The cover versions of Jerusalema have been done in many different languages. “It's a beautiful feeling knowing people from other countries are appreciating something you have done. That is what should happen when we are making music. This gives me strength to create more music.”