The family of slain Tshegofatso Pule have urged supporters to remain patient and allow the police to properly investigate the case of the man accused of murdering eight-month pregnant Pule following another postponement. The murder of Pule sent shock waves across South Africa and internationally after the heavily pregnant woman was found hanging from a tree in Durban Deep, Roodepoort, last month. Muzikayise Malephane, 31, from Zondi, Soweto, was arrested last month and he appeared briefly in the Roodepoort Magistrate’s Court yesterday, where he was charged with the premeditated murder of the 28-year-old woman. Mystery surrounds the details behind Pule’s murder after it was reported that Malephane did not work alone in allegedly planning her murder and that he was allegedly promised R70000 to murder her. During the court proceedings, Magistrate John Baloyi announced that the matter was being considered as a high court matter. “The matter has been identified as a high court matter due to the seriousness of it (murder). The State will therefore prepare the matter for the high court until such a time when a decision is made and then it will be transferred to the high court,” he said. Pule’s uncle and the family spokesperson, Tumisang Katake, said after court that it was good that the matter was being considered for the high court. “It’s a good thing if the case is, so that it is worth the magnitude of the high court. It’s a good thing and we can only hope for the best once such a stage has been reached,” he said. Thursday’s court proceeding also marked the first time that the accused appeared before court with his private lawyer, Advocate Jolene Muir, after Malephane abandoned his Legal Aid bid and opted for a private lawyer on June 24. Prosecutor Musa Makhubele asked for a postponement of the case to September for further investigation as there was evidence that was still outstanding. “The things that are outstanding at this stage are the DNA and chain evidence,” the prosecutor said. Muir asked the State if there were other suspects who were being investigated or arrested in connection to the case, and Makhubele indicated that no other arrests had been made yet, however the investigation into other suspects was pending. Frustration has been building around the case following numerous postponements since Malephane was arrested. Following his appearance on June 24, the accused was supposed to appear in court on July 2, however the matter was postponed because the court was closed for decontamination after a staff member tested positive for coronavirus. The matter was pushed to July 9 but it was postponed again after the accused failed to arrive at court, allegedly due to a confusion in court dates. Katake said postponements were frustrating but the family understood that there were still investigations that needed to be done, and urged people to exercise patience while investigations were pending. The case was postponed to September for further investigation.