Thandi Ntuli’s musical talent has extended its reach across borders. The jazz pianist released a live recording album earlier this year from her performance at the artist led jazz festival Jazzwerkstatt Bern. The festival features once-off collaborative projects with artists from around the world and in Switzerland where it is based. She rearranged the music of Exiled- her 2018 project- to include instrumentation for an ensemble string quintet. “The album itself is a live recording from a performance I did last year. When I was speaking about Exiled it was basically about my intention to make it quite a performance art project. That project was taking on the challenge of making the music a little bigger. Essentially most of the music is from Exiled but it’s been extended in terms of adding instrumentation,” said the 32-year-old composer. Ntuli connected with the Jazzwerkstatt team through one of the organisers, Shane Cooper. “I met them (the team) through music and my going to Switzerland for the first time in 2018, I got an invite to the festival to perform the following year.” For this  performance, Ntuli wrote and arranged her music for what she called "The Thandi Ntuli Art Ensemble" to challenge herself to write for a bigger ensemble than what she usually has access to performing with. “It was amazing that we were able to get it right, record it and have it good enough to be released.” The producer wrote the music for the instrumentation to suit a big band, having never written for strings before, making it quite the challenge for her. “I wanted a band on stage and to do something big. You don’t necessarily play your own project there, you meet with musicians and do a collaborative project.” For this live project Ntuli led the ensemble with musicians from in and around Switzerland that she was mostly playing with for the first time. “It was an intense learning exercise as I navigated the intercultural dynamics as well as the nuances of each instrument that would help me articulate my vision on the score. The challenge was more getting to have the communication right, English is not their first language. It was just easing into that way of communication. The musicians were open and professional.” The album, Live at Jazzwerkstatt, is available on all digital platforms. Ntuli released it earlier than expected using a special Bandcamp had to waive fees for artists. The album has been available since March. Since the lockdown stopped any chance of live music performances, the musician has sought other means to stay creative. “I have been getting some work and doing a lot more writing work. I was asked to do an arrangement of music for a theatre production and I have gotten similar type work where I've been getting pieces of commissions to write so that’s been helpful. It has been tough in a sense that when I write music I usually have a band to try it out with then I get feedback, so the challenge is using the computer instead. I have shifted my mindset from live performance to composition.”