An anaesthetist working at Chris Hani-Baragwanath Academic Hospital, Dr Patricia Brown from Greymont, has always found strength in her long hair. Now she is willing to be parted with her 60cm locks to empower young girls battling debilitating illnesses so they too can find their confidence. Partnering with A Few Grey Hairs, Brown agreed to chop off all her hair in a live social media event on November 7 to support the “Hair with love” initiative that encourages women of all ages to donate their hair to young girls in need. Through a crowdfunding campaign on BackaBuddy, which aims to raise R30 000 on the sale of her hair, and the help of fellow campaigner Susan Friese, Brown hopes to have enough funds to create three wigs to be donated to the following beneficiaries: Teagan Walsh, 4, a young girl who lost her hair as a result of neuroblastoma treatment; Liane Ferreira, 7, and Lisa Venter, 13, who suffer from Alopecia totalis and Clauston syndrome respectively, a condition that has left them with little or no hair, without the possibility of future hair growth. Since the BackaBuddy campaign went live on September 29, Brown has already raised over R20 000 with contributions from 30 donors both locally and abroad. “As a healthcare worker, I have come across numerous children who have lost their hair as a result of chemotherapy or because they have Alopecia. “Each time, I have wished that I could give them some of my hair along with my strength so they can fight their circumstances. All a little girl wants is to feel normal, loved and beautiful. “I know that many parents are under huge financial pressure when their child is undergoing treatment and hair is often seen as a luxury that they cannot afford. “I hope with my BackaBuddy campaign I can make their journey a little easier and hopefully inspire others to do the same,” she adds. A Few Grey Hairs, based in Linden, was launched in 2013 by mother-and-daughter duo Liz and Delia Dashwood. As trained hairdressers, they have dedicated themselves to perfecting the art of wig making and are pioneers in the field. In 2018, they launched their “Hairs with love” campaign, whereby small ponytail donations from women and school girls across the country from all ethnic backgrounds are received. https://www.backabuddy.co.za/ patricia-brown https://pos.snapscan.io/qr/patriciabrown To donate your hair for a good cause, contact A Few Grey Hairs here: https://www.facebook.com/hairswithlove The Star