Johannesburg - Illegal dumping in the Malvern and Jeppe areas, especially around Jules Street, which stretches several kilometres, has been getting out of hand. The DA’s proportional representation councillor, McKinnley Ramon Mitchell said all appeals to Pikitup for additional bins have remained unsuccessful. Mitchell says that Pikitup does not have a c Illegal dumping in the Malvern and Jeppe areas, especially around Jules Street, which stretches several kilometres, has been getting out of hand.omprehensive list of ratepayers in these areas who are linked to the city’s revenue system and who should be provided with bins. He is now starting to compile a list. “Pikitup, instead of supplying bins, is handing out black plastic bags and then pays a private contractor to collect these illegally-dumped bags. This comes at an additional and unnecessary cost to the city. “I have had countless complaints from residents regarding the illegal dumping situation getting out of hand. Malvern, especially, has become an illegal dumping hotspot, where business owners dump rubbish in broad daylight without considering the city’s by-laws or the health risks that exist,” he said. When Mitchell followed up on this issue, and confronted the shop owners responsible for throwing out rubbish, they justified their actions by explaining that they have no bins for waste disposal. “The city spends millions of rand to pay contractors to collect illegally dumped waste, instead of supplying bins to shop owners that are the greatest contributors to the problem. Surprisingly, many I spoke to are willing to pay Pikitup for its service and bins,” he said. When such issues are raised, the ANC-led Joburg administration turns a blind eye to service delivery, he said. “We will also continue to put pressure on Joburg Metro Police Department to enforce the city’s by-laws in combating illegal dumping. We will demand a report from Pikitup to highlight the severity of the problem, as some shop owners who pay rates do not have bins. Illegal dumping is unacceptable,” he added. Neither Pikitup nor the City of Joburg responded to several requests for comment. The Star