Johannesburg - A battle that the University of Johannesburg (UJ) has waged since 2012 in a bid to repossess prime land it leased to a private theology institution in the 1990s is headed to the Constitutional Court. The university has been in and out of court over the past eight years fighting to reclaim its land from the Auckland Park Theological Seminary (ATS) and build a student residence on it. Legal papers indicated that UJ moved to repossess the land in Auckland Park, near its Kingsway Campus, after it learnt that ATS had ceded the 30-year lease to a third party. UJ and ATS entered into the lease in 1996 for the land expropriated by the apartheid government three decades earlier. The lease stipulated that ATS would build a campus offering theology studies from BA level to doctorate. The land remained vacant when ATS, previously known as the Apostolic Faith Mission of SA Theological College, ceded the lease to Wamjay Holdings in 2011. UJ sought a ruling declaring this cession null and void. In papers filed at the apex court, UJ said ATS breached the contract by ceding the lease. “When the third party informed the university of its plans to develop the property, the university cancelled the lease on the basis that the lease was personal to the theological seminary as a delectus personae and therefore incapable of cession by the seminary,” said professor of law and UJ’s counsel Patrick O’Brien in the papers. UJ approached the apex court after it lost at the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA), having initially won at the South Gauteng High Court. The SCA found that there was nothing in the lease agreement supporting UJ’s assertion that the rights in the lease were personal to ATS and therefore incapable of cession. UJ is seeking to convince the Constitutional Court that the SCA erred. “The SCA had no regard at all to the context within which the lease had been concluded or the historical relationship between the applicant and the first respondent,” said O’Brien. “I respectfully submit that, had the SCA properly considered the context surrounding the lease agreement, it would have… found that the lease was personal to the ATS and that the rights therein could not be ceded to Wamjay.” O’Brien said the court should hear the matter on the public interest principle. It should consider UJ’s plans to build a residence on the land. “The applicant (as with other public universities) has a dire need for student accommodation.” ATS will put up a fight. Willem Hattingh, principal and board member, said in papers there were no grounds for the court to even hear the matter. “I deny that this application raises constitutional issues or that it raises a matter of public importance,” he said. The SCA’s findings were spot on, Hattingh said. “Unfortunately for UJ, the lease agreement did not contain limitation of ATS’ common law right to freely cede its rights in the lease agreement – being the right to occupy the leased premises, whilst retaining its obligations.” The case is expected to be heard on November 5. The Star