Johannesburg - Investigations into the fire that broke out at Bheki Mlangeni Hospital last year seem to have hit a deadlock despite R5 million being spent on repairs and equipment replacement. The fire which broke out at the hospital’s administration block in May damaged the entire interior, including the ventilation ducting. At the time, allegations surfaced that an employee at the Soweto hospital left the heater on, which led to the fire. Several departments conducted investigations into the matter, including the City of Joburg’s Fire Safety, Gauteng Infrastructure and the Employment and Labour departments. According to the latest information from Gauteng Acting Health MEC Jacob Mamabolo, an electrical fault was suspected as the cause of the fire. Mamabolo revealed this in a written reply to questions by DA’s health spokesperson Jack Bloom in the Gauteng Legislature. Bloom expressed his frustration with Mamabolo’s response, indicating that the facility was still new to be hit by building faults. “It is disappointing that this hospital has been dogged by building faults despite being opened only six years ago at a cost of R730 million,” Bloom said. However, the Gauteng Infrastructure Department’s findings contradicts Mamabolo. The department has indicated that the fire was caused by an electric heater fault and that the building damage was limited to one office within the human resource block. The department’s spokesperson Bongiwe Gambu said their investigation found that there was common usage of portable electrical appliances for space heating and electrical extensions cords due to insufficient switched socket outlet points. Gambu said the fire damaged other electrical infrastructure including light fittings, socket outlets, cables, extension cords, portable heaters and fire detectors. She said the hospital’s mechanical infrastructure was also damaged. “A number of other air handling units in the hospital including those of theatres were also affected as they drew heavy smoke from the burning offices.” Gambu added that the hospital forms part of a wider Occupational Health and Safety Act compliance programme. The hospital’s compliance with the programme includes the upgrading of the Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC), fire detection and supervision systems. The programme intends to ensure that the HVAC system operates optimally to eliminate usage of portable appliances throughout the facility. The department has since repaired the hospital’s electrical infrastructure, mechanical infrastructure and building infrastructure which have cost just above R2m. City of Joburg’s Public Safety spokesperson Nana Radebe said the city conducted preliminary investigations and suspected the cause of fire was determined as being electrical in origin. The Star