Johannesburg - Just five months after being appointed as City Power acting chief executive, Malope Ramagaga has been removed from the position. Staff at the utility on Monday received an internal memo which informed them that he had been removed from the position and that City Power group executive for metering services Nancy Maluleke would now be acting head. In June, Ramagaga, who was group executive for enterprise support, was appointed as the acting chief executive after the City Power board placed Lerato Setshedi on special leave. However, Ramagaga’s appointment was not accepted by the staff and unions, who queried his qualifications. A source within the entity said on Monday that the board held an emergency meeting at the end of last week at which Ramagaga’s fate was decided. The source said the board had no choice but to remove him from the position. “His performance was declining. Some of the decisions he didn’t make regarding contracts that ended and he didn’t renew them quickly enough lead to the many outages during June and July. “Some material was not ordered to be ready for winter. Many managers saw this as his weakness and that was detrimental to the work of City Power,” the source said. An example, the source said, was last week’s outage at the Orlando substation that provided electricity for most of Joburg South. It took City Power a few days to resolve the outage leading to Rand Water not having power to pump water out of the Eikenhof pump station to reservoirs. This led to residents in areas like Sophiatown and Auckland Park being left without water. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said while removed as acting chief executive, Ramagaga was still general manager at the power utility. “The decision to replace Ramagaga is in line with City Power’s human resources policies and City of Joburg guidelines which allows for and encourages senior managers to act in positions, and rotation to happen on a regular basis,” Mangena said. Next week, Setshedi is expected to appear before the South Gauteng High Court to provide reasons why he should not be jailed after the entity failed to provide the court with information regarding a R1.5 billion tender for about 60 companies. Before being placed on special leave, Setshedi had flagged issues with the procurement and the entity approached the court to allow it to re-advertise the contract. According to the source, the information the court wanted was available but Ramagaga, who was acting on Setshedi’s behalf, didn’t submit it. Acting Judge Frank Snyckers stated that City Power must embark on emergency procurement using a closed list of bidders that have already been assessed. He said the process must be completed no later than the end of this month. Mangena said that they were on track with the court order. “In terms of the court order, we have started the procurement process as per the court order. “And we will submit a progress report to the court by the end of the month,” Mangena said. The disputed tender has also been referred to the City of Joburg’s investigative unit headed by former Gauteng Hawks head Lieutenant-General Shadrack Sibiya. The Star