My brother bought the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 a few months ago, so when the Note 20 arrived for review, I figured he was the perfect person to test it. The mystic bronze device I received (the colour sways more to a rose gold for me) felt lightweight and had a good grip in my hands. My brother seemed to agree, for the size (194g) the weight is light enough to hold the smartphone for extended time periods. The sleek, slim design makes handling the phone with one hand much easier. The haze texture finish adds to the overall firmness of the phone and feels good on the hand. The speaker has good sound quality, it is loud and clear. When it comes to the display and resolution, the colour pops are super clean. It comes with a 6.7inch flat FHD+ Super Amoled Plus and Infinity-O Display (2400x1080). The light adjustment in harsh lighting is great as it allows you to see the screen clearly without having to change any setting. The large screen display for multi tasking and multiple screens works well for the S Pen features. The pen is 105mm in length and weighs just over 3g. It has the remote features for toggling music or taking pictures. Selfies are easy without having to struggle pressing the shutter on the phone. For the creative, planning and art boards while working on the phone are made easy. The battery life is for all-day use. According to Samsung, using the S Pen as a stylus does not require battery power. Actual battery life may vary depending on usage patterns and other factors. The battery capacity is 4300mAh. The processor is quick for switching between multiple apps and using those apps. Besides the storage and processor, not much differentiates the software between mid models. Flagship has additional software features such as desktop but you can live without it. You can link the Galaxy Note with your Windows 10 PC to use the apps. The realtime sync of Samsung Notes in Outlook and OneNote lets you work much faster, allowing notes to transfer directly to Outlook. Camera modes switch from pro to panorama to live focus to slow motion and more. One thing I did notice is when the camera is in photo mode in ultra wide, there was a distortion of the subject at the top of the screen. Overall, the Galaxy Note 20 gets any job done seamlessly. It comes in two other colours, mystic grey and mystic green and retails from R23 995. The Star