The harm air pollution is doing to Africa seems to be growing. Estimates of premature mortality attributed to air pollution increased from about 570 000 in 1990 to more than 700 000 in 2013. But the estimates have high levels of uncertainty, because of the shortage of air quality data they’re based on. What’s needed is monitoring on the spot. Assessments rely on limited terrestrial measurements of air pollution. They use air quality models and information from satellites to fill in the gaps. In areas where there’s less information on pollution sources and levels, filling in the gaps is harder to do. This is the case across Africa. The recent OpenAQ Global Assessment of Government Monitoring collated information on the availability of open-air quality measurements from government-run monitoring networks globally. The assessment found that only 49% of governments produce open-air quality data. This leaves about 1.4 billion people without access to such data. Nine of the 13 most populous countries where governments don’t have a long-term air quality monitoring programme are in Africa. To tackle the problem of poor air quality and its effect on health, it’s necessary to understand how much air pollution people are exposed to. This is achieved through air quality monitoring. The data should be accessible so that they can be used to make a difference. By opening data, governments and industry can increase people’s trust in the findings. It can also create opportunities for a wider community of users to analyse and reuse the information. The real value of open data is unlocked when creative intermediaries, such as app developers, are able to develop novel interactions and visual experiences with the data, to engage audiences in new ways. Some examples of applications are those that combine air quality data with other information to offer advice on travel routes, where to live and even to encourage medication adherence. In addition, access to the measurements from accurate reference instruments are needed to assess the performance of lower-cost air quality sensors. The sensors can provide “hyper-local” information on air quality. By opening data, official monitoring and reporting on air quality can be complemented by data from other sources and sectors. South Africa has some of the most mature air quality legislation and infrastructure in Africa. There’s a network of government-run stations and some industry-run stations reporting to the South African Air Quality Information System. But, as pointed out by OpenAQ, the system doesn’t provide programmatic access to its data. A better programming interface requires additional technical resources and data publishing controls. Governments, civil society and technology partners need to build capacity for reusing and innovating the data, and understanding what it means for long-term health, the economy, and day-to-day decisions. By making the information more accessible and enabling a wider community of users, open data unlocks the potential of the large investment by governments into monitoring infrastructure for a larger range of applications and benefits to society. Garland is a Principal Researcher in Climate and Air Quality Modelling Research Group at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and Plantinga is a Research Specialist: Digital Strategies and Engagement, Human Sciences Research Council. The Star