Johannesburg - Flat owners at the Tygerberg Flats in Berea, Joburg, are calling for the immediate removal of the building’s former administrator who they accuse of swindling their money. Owners and occupants of the Tygerberg have approached the South Gauteng High Court on an urgent basis to inderdict the building’s former administrator Jan van den Bos for his immediate removal after they alleged that he still indirectly collected money and benefits from the building. Van den Bos was the building administrator from 2011 to 2018. “We need to remove him from the building completely; including all his contract services that he brought in, because all the people who installed the (electricity) meters are linked to him and people are unable to pay … We also realised that the account that we pay into for levies is his company’s personal account,” one resident who asked to remain anonymous told The Star. In a letter from property owners’ lawyer Zuko Madikane to his attorney Tony Ellis, on October 5, occupants requested Van den Bos withdraw all activities that he was currently involved in the property as he had no authority. Property owner and resident Mushoni Makhala said after Van den Bos’s time as administrator had lapsed, residents filed an application to the court to remove him from the building, because of his alleged incompetence and maladministration. The order, seen by The Star, stated that the former administrator was suspended and the owners wanted to establish a board of trustees. The building’s board of trustees appointed PAL Property Management as the managing agent in 2018. “He is a director in the company,” Makhala said. “We note that the owners and residents are calling for Van den Bos to withdraw. He personally is not involved in any of the dealings of the building,” Ellis said. In 2018, the property owners approached the City of Joburg’s Group Forensic and Investigative Service to investigate the allegations of property hijacking, but found no elements of property hijacking, the group had said at the time. The Star