Johannesburg - The family of the slain Tshegofatso Pule remain optimistic as murder accused Muzikayise Malephane’s case was again postponed to allow the accused to make representations. The brutal murder of 28-year-old Pule sent shock waves across South Africa and internationally in June after the eight months pregnant woman was found hanging from a tree in Roodepoort. Malephane, 31, made a brief appearance in the South Gauteng High Court on Tuesday for pre-trial, but the matter was postponed. He faces charges of murder, defeating the ends of justice, unlawful possession of a firearm, and unlawful possession of ammunition. The accused’s previous appearance on September 29 was postponed for pre-trial hearing to enable the State to hand over outstanding documentation regarding further investigation into the case. Malephane’s lawyer advocate Johlene Muir confirmed to Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng that the defence received the outstanding documents on Tuesday morning. “We would like to have a chance to discuss it with the accused and also to make presentations to the director of public prosecutions (DPP),” she said. Mokgoatlheng allowed the matter to be remanded to November 19 pending the outcome of the response from the DPP. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said now the State did not know what representation Malephane’s lawyers were planning to put before the DPP. Pule was last seen alive while getting into a taxi that her boyfriend had called for her. Her uncle and family spokesperson Tumisang Katake, speaking after the court proceedings, told the media that the family were optimistic about the case. “It’s a process, and eventually, the day shall come. As for now, we just have to wait to hear what his representation will be. “I am not sure on which angle he is going to come from but whether they will be successful or not, that’s the DPP’s decision,” Katake said. “I don’t think as a family we have anything to fear in regards to this case,” he said. EFF members and supporters of the family were picketing outside court during the proceedings, calling for justice for Pule’s murder. EFF’s Poppy Mailola said the party was not pleased that the matter was once again postponed. “What is happening with this court is clear evidence that there is some sort of delay tactic. “As much as we want the law to take its course and give it time to do what is required, but the case has been postponed several times,” she said. Mailola said something needed to be done with how gender-based violence cases are handled at the courts. The Star