Johannesburg - Rare blood cancer patient Daniella van Zyl has said she is not ready to die. The 26-year-old has turned to crowdfunding as she desperately seeks to raise R1.5 million for a lifesaving bone marrow transplant. The year started positively for the young woman from Rangeview, Krugersdorp. She could see a bright future for herself after she began a new career and moved into her own flat. However, she was about to embark on the biggest battle of her life. Van Zyl told The Star yesterday that in the beginning of February she noticed bruising on her legs and arms, however, the self-proclaimed clumsy girl did not pay much attention to it. “When I started noticing tiny little blue dots on my face and inside my mouth, I knew that something else was up and also started feeling tired, with flu-like symptoms,” she said. The symptoms continued to escalate until she was rushed to Union Hospital in Alberton, Ekurhuleni, on March 2. The following day, she was diagnosed with Philadelphia Chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ALL), a rare type of blood cancer and was informed by her doctors that she only had about eight months to live. Since she was diagnosed, Van Zyl has undergone four high doses of chemotherapy, five bone marrow biopsies, four spinal taps and 17 blood transfusions, which were covered by her medical aid. “I am finally ready to receive a bone marrow transplant that gives me a second chance at life, only to find out on September 9 that my medical aid does not cover the procedure and I would need to fund the transplant myself,” the patient said. Van Zyl and her mother Debbie Buys were forced to turn to crowdfunding platform BackABuddy to try to raise R1.5m for the transplant within the next three months before her window of opportunity is closed. “If I don’t make that amount of money this time my body will become chemo-resistant and I will no longer qualify for the transplant,” she said. By yesterday, the Daniella vs Leukemia Transplant Fund had raised about R307 761. Buys said the family also took a big financial knock because of the coronavirus pandemic. However, she is hopeful. “Daniella will survive this because we have God on our side and we have people from around the world and in South Africa that we have never met who contribute and send the best messages,” the mother said. The Star