Johannesburg – Fired Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku has launched a scathing fightback at Gauteng Premier David Makhura. This follows his axing on Friday. Masuku is accused of facilitating a R125 million tender for President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson, Khusela Diko, and her husband, King Thandisizwe Diko. Makhura has allegedly fired Masuku without considering an independent investigation report by private investigator Paul O’Sullivan in which he (O’Sullivan) cleared Masuku but directly implicated the Dikos. Masuku has now put his lawyers on to the premier, calling on Makhura to explain the reasons for firing him. Shortly after Makhura’s statement axing Masuku, Masuku released his statement accusing the SIU (Special Investigations Unit) of using innuendos with political speech and no interest in finding truths. Masuku also accused the SIU of not studying his affidavit. The report makes no findings on the Dikos. The battle between two of Gauteng’s political heavyweights is in full swing. The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) has thrown its weight strongly behind Masuku and has lambasted Makhura, accusing him of “playing politics”. Denosa provincial chairperson Simphiwe Gada has slammed Makhura for promising to reappoint Masuku after the final report. “He tells us that the SIU report found that the MEC was not compliant in terms of what is required from him in the Constitution. “Effectively, he is telling us that he was incompetent in exercising his oversight role. Then the premier says if he is cleared of corruption in the final report he will consider hiring him again,” he said. “If he wants to be loved by everybody, then he must sell ice cream. Being a leader requires that you take painful and difficult decisions. “We know that he has been on record saying he is disappointed in Bandile Masuku even though he has done a good job in leading the fight against Covid-19. “The premier must not play politics and test waters on how people are going to react if he fires Masuku,” he said. Ilawu (Independent Liberation and Allied Workers Union) has also gone to Masuku’s defence, accusing Makhura of targeting Masuku to protect the Dikos. “We know that it was the president’s trusted spin doctor that got the tender. It is questionable why the premier would fire Dr Masuku before the final report is released if it’s not to protect Khusela. “Makhura is firing Dr Masuku to save his own job. We will never allow that,” said Ilawu secretary-general Siphamandla Masimula. “It was Masuku who brought in the SIU after the CFO resigned. That’s why they want him out. “Why is the premier not making that report public,’’ Masimula asked. In a surprise move, the union also called on Makhura to vacate his position until the completion of the investigation by the SIU, with Gada arguing that there were allegations around Makhura’s involvement in the Covid-19 PPE scandal. He said the union was on Sunday writing a letter to Makhura to ask him to step aside. “His name has been coming up and we think that where there is smoke there might be fire and therefore he should also consider taking special leave and allow for the SIU investigations to conclude,’’ Gada said. Makhura’s spokesperson, Vuyo Mhaga, had not responded to questions by time of going to publication on Sunday. The Star