Johannesburg - The life of the Hawks spokesperson, Hangwani Mulaudzi, has been turned upside down after his foundation scored a R3 million grant from the National Lotteries Commission (NLC). The commission and Mulaudzi have been the subject of a backlash recently, with many questioning the commission’s relationship with Mulaudzi as the Hawks are currently investigating some of NLC’s grants. The Hangwani Mulaudzi Foundation, an no-profit making organisation based in Limpopo, pocketed R3m from the commission to establish a sports centre for the community of Mashamba in July last year. The centre would cater to more than 100 children and would have features such as a block of toilets, an office and a change-room facility. It will also be fitted with a borehole with running taps, and fencing. The Star understands that the Covid19 pandemic has since derailed the work in getting the facilities ready. A frustrated Mulaudzi said political leaders have put his life in danger with their agendas. “I don’t know what kind of message they are trying to send out. I have to observe countless times now when I’m driving or walking because people think I carry case dockets and there is nothing like that.” Mulaudzi went on to clarify that he does not deal directly with investigations at the Hawks. “I don’t have that authority at Hawks. I don’t influence any investigations. I just communicate information that is given to me.” The spokesperson said he is not the sole director of the foundation. “It’s not my foundation only. It’s an NPO and there are others who have partnered with me in running this foundation,” he said. Asked to comment on why the foundation uses his name, Mulaudzi said: “That was done because my name is popular, simple.” However, the DA’s Mat Cuthbert indicated that there was a clear conflict of interest which has the potential to derail the entire investigation into large-scale looting at the NLC. He argued that the funding raises alarm bells considering that the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition (DTIC) had recently handed over evidence related to the Denzhe Primary Care scandal to the Hawks to investigate. This comes after the NPO mysteriously scored a whopping R7.5m from the commission which is now being investigated by Hawks. Mulaudzi reiterated that he is not aware of investigating procedures and that it does not concern him as the spokesperson. He said the foundation, which was established in 2017, was meant to give skills to children in his community. The commission’s spokesperson Ndivhuho Mafela said the foundation applied and was approved for an NLC grant in the sport and recreation sector. Mafela further refused to be drawn into the alleged conflict of interest against Mulaudzi. “The NLC does not fund individuals, but registered NGOs/NPOs that work for the public good,” he said. Cuthbert said the DA will be submitting parliamentary questions to DTIC Minister Ebrahim Patel and Police Minister Bheki Cele to ascertain whether or not they were aware of the disbursement of funds at the time and whether or not they deem it to be a conflict of interest. The Star