Johannesburg – Police are still on a massive hunt for the alleged killers of suspended Sedibeng District Municipality manager Stanley Khanyile, who was killed on Saturday. Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said yesterday police investigations were continuing and that no arrests have been made so far. On Sunday, Sedibeng District Municipality Mayor Busisiwe Modisakeng paid tribute to Khanyile, saying she had learnt with shock and sadness about his sudden passing. Khanyile was shot and killed outside the parking lot of a shopping centre in Meyersdal by unknown suspects. He had served as Sedibeng District Municipality manager from 1 June 2017. “The brutal and inhumane murder of Mr Khanyile has left a devastating pain and sudden loss to the family of Sedibeng District Municipality and its stakeholders,” Modisakeng said. "The Executive Mayor encourages anyone who may have witnessed the incident or have any information that could lead to the apprehension of the suspects to contact their nearest police station or to call the Crime Stop number 08600 10111. ’’I humbly urge that we provide the Khanyile family and friends the much-needed space and support during this dark and trying time for their loss and grief and to ensure that Mr Khanyile receives a dignified send-off.” The municipality also extended its condolences to Khanyile's family, friends and his colleagues. Similar sentiments were expressed by the South African Local Government Association (Salga) yesterday. Salga spokesperson Marelda Boshielo said it was with deep sadness that Salga had learned with shock of the passing of Khanyile, who also served as chairperson of the Gauteng Municipal Managers’ Forum. "In light of this tragic incident, Salga joins the entire local government community in mourning the death of Mr Khanyile and in expressing its sincere condolences to his family, friends and colleagues." She said Khanyile's murder underscored the widespread killings and intimidation of municipal managers and councillors. Last month, Khanyile appeared in court for alleged corruption committed in the Eastern Cape, where he was head of the provincial Social Development Department. Charges include fraud, theft and money laundering of more than R29 million. The Star