By Editorial The sudden cancellation of the match between the Lions and Free State Cheetahs was unfortunate but necessary. On Saturday, hours before the game, SA Rugby took the decision to call off the Super Rugby Unlocked Round 3 encounter after two more Lions players tested positive for Covid-19. That brings the number of infected players up to 6, with a further five withdrawn ahead of the match-day squad due to being in close proximity with those infected. None of the players concerned has been identified. The viral cluster that has developed in Doornfontein has become the first real stress test for South African sport concerning the virus, and the measured and quick decision-making by SA Rugby, which will have consequences on the tournament, in the long run is nevertheless the correct one. The well-being of the players, officials and technical teams is paramount and must be treated with respect and vigilance within the parameters set out by the National Institute of Communicable Diseases’ protocols. So, while it was disappointing for fans not to watch the match, SA Rugby, by following the government’s regulations, has taken the correct steps to limit the spread of the cluster, and in doing so, hopefully, ensure the health of its players, and the tournament. It is now the unfortunate reality of the current world we live in, that this decision will probably not be the last. Until such a time when a sense of normality returns, all sporting codes, not only rugby, will have to live haphazardly with the knowledge that they will, for the foreseeable future, be playing in empty stadiums, and that they are not immune to the threat of Covid-19. SA Rugby is to be commended for making the tough decision and putting their most important capital – their players – before all other considerations. It is our sincere hope that the players infected at the Lions – and the number is still in flux – make a speedy recovery so that they can soon entertain us on the field, and that they will be able to do it again with fans back in our stadiums. The Star