For the last 16 years, DJ Zinhle’s life has been about celebrations. Her work has required her to go to clubs and celebrate people, events and projects. Yesterday the DJ toasted to her own achievement becoming the first local artist to obtain an equity in an international brand. The 36-year-old businesswoman has taken over as chief executive of sparkling wine beverage Boulevard Nectar Rosè. “Boulevard just made sense for me as a brand. I love celebrations and this is a brand that is all about that. I can’t wait to be part of people’s celebrations in this way. This lockdown period has been hectic but everything happens for a reason.” The DJ has always made it a point to seek authentic relationships when it comes to the business partnerships she embarks upon. “It has to be something that speaks to me and is of high quality. My first experience of Boulevard was when I launched Jiyane Atelier last year and I fell in love with the bottle and the taste and wanted to know more about it. As someone who has worked at SAB before and had experience in the alcohol beverage space, I always thought I would be in that space at some point (again). I personally liked the brand and I really enjoying selling quality products. Even with Era and all the other stuff that we do, it might not be the highest priced product but it will always be quality.” The Umlilo hitmaker said she feels like she has been appointed to bring quality products to black people, especially. The DJ will not be working as a ‘face’ of the product but will have actual ownership in the business. “This brand ticked all the boxes. As CEO this means I must go to work. I have some experience in business when it comes to developing a product until point of sale. I have done that with Era for the past seven years and the other businesses I’ve worked on but this obviously requires a higher level from me and I am excited to be able to operate at that level. With my businesses it was great but it was at a smaller scale but now I feel like I am going to be living my business dreams with this acquisition.”