Johannesburg – The woman charged with the murder of two Orange Farm children, whose bodies were discovered metres apart, is a suspect in the murder of another child whose body was found in her house in April. The murder of Simphiwe Mgcina, 6, and Mpho Makondo, 8, sent shock waves through the south Joburg township as the community lived in fear following the disappearance and death of numerous children this year. Pontsho Mohlanka, 29, appeared briefly in the Vereeniging Magistrate’s Court yesterday where she was charged for Simphiwe and Mpho’s murders in the early hours of September 19. It is understood that the friends and neighbours were seen walking home from a nearby salon before they disappeared on September 19. The children were discovered the following morning, naked, lying a few metres apart. The community suspected that it was a muti killing. Gauteng provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said investigations last Friday led the police to Soweto where the woman was found and arrested on suspicion of being involved in the murder of the two children, who were laid to rest last weekend. “The suspect’s initial court appearance was on Monday, September 28 postponed to today (yesterday) after she had to be rushed to hospital for medical attention,” Peters said yesterday. Ahead of Mohlanka’s appearance, community members picketed outside the court calling for justice for the murders of the children. Simphiwe and Mpho’s killings are the second to happen in the same street, allegedly at Mohlanka’s hand. In April, she was arrested after the body of Mzwandile Zitho, 5, was found in between the fridges at the tavern in her house. “The boy had been reported missing earlier in the day on April 15, and the search led to the woman’s house where the child’s body was found. “The woman and her partner were both arrested but charges were later withdrawn against the male suspect,” said Peters. The police spokesperson added that Mzwandile’s murder case was temporarily withdrawn in court pending the outcome of a toxicology report. Mohlanka was released from custody on September 16, three days before Simphiwe and Mpho were murdered. “The investigation is still under way while police continue to work hard to build a solid case in support of the preliminary evidence gathered thus far,” Peters said. National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesperson Lumka Mahanjana confirmed that Mohlanka appeared on charges of kidnapping and murder of the two minors. “The matter was postponed to October 5 to arrange for bail application,” Mahanjana said. Another child who went missing and was found dead in Orange Farm this year was 3-year-old Ansia Kheha. The little girl was discovered with a slit throat and multiple stab wounds inside a basket about 6km away from her home in June. The Star