Johannesburg - Covid-19 has put a lot of mental, emotional and physical strain on many people. It is because of this that Vanessa Tloubatla founded the Free Your Mind initiative, a monthly interactive retreat where mentally, physically, emotionally exhausted and wounded individuals meet to gain learning tools to cope with stressful daily demands that have increased as a result of the pandemic. “There has just been so much loss we experienced as the world this year. People lost their jobs, family members, relationships didn’t survive, people lost their homes and so much more,” said Tloubatla. She said that the retreat aimed to help people learn practical tools to deal with emotions that are often misplaced, to gain a support system, interact with mental health experts and to restore hope. “As we grow older our circle of trust gets smaller and smaller. Many of us don’t have family members in the cities we live in. “As we accumulate emotional and mental issues, we don’t know where to ‘dump’ them or what to do with them. People lack guidance in knowing what to do. “I thought of creating a space where people will feel free to come and be able to figure out why they are crying and start to heal. A lot of the time we have things we are going through but we don’t know at what point of the issue we are at.” The retreat takes place on Saturday in Pretoria and will feature Life in Recovery coach Gail Masondo; Dr Carol Lotter, a music therapist; Nokwanda Makunga, a medicinal researcher at the university of Stellenbosch; and Denis Dlomo, a personal trainer. “It’s not just about a conversation, I wanted to tell people they have to put in the work. Healing is a process and it takes time and action. The space is not for sitting in a hall and talking. It is for action. “Carol does music therapy, people can beat drums, dance and scream it out. That is an action you have to do to let the emotions go. “Nokwanda tackles the benefits we aren’t aware of, like gardening and healing space and planting and benefiting from the herbs and oils from your garden.” Tloubatla stressed that people needed to do more than “talk it out” to start their own healing process. “We hear people say a lot of the time that we need to think positive and pray about it, but that’s not necessarily enough. “There are tools you need in order to work through some of the traumas we have gone through. I wanted to do action-related things, a type of experiential learning.” Tloubatla wants the wellness platform to become a monthly occasion for people to continue with their journey of healing but is still looking for sponsors. “It is open to both men and women. No one can heal in just one day. For now we are using the resources we have to do what we can.” The Star