Johannesburg - Award-winning adventurer Saray Khumalo and breast cancer survivor and cyclist Cindy van Wyk have shattered the Guinness World Record for the most money raised during an eight-hour stationary cycling event. Together with Momentum Multiply and Planet Fitness, Khumalo and Van Wyk tested their stamina to raise R704 790 for a one-day event, dubbed #Spin4Literacy, which took place from 6.30am to 2.30pm on Sunday in Sandton. The event was aiming to beat the previous record, which was set by a UK-based indoor cycling company in 2016, and proceeds will be donated to iSchoolAfrica in aid of building digital libraries. The original goal of #Spin4Literacy was to raise R1 million as the two women pedalled away on bikes for eight hours straight at Planet Fitness’s Sandton cycling studio. Khumalo, who was the first black woman from the Africa to reach the summit of Mount Everest said that they didn’t realise their original goal, they would still raise money to reach their R1m target. “I know people are saying ‘It’s crazy, eight hours’ but it’s nothing compared to what we would lose if we don’t help those children to bridge the digital divide,” she said. The duo were joined by 17 other participants, who pledged their support through their pedals at other gym studios in Cape Town, Pretoria, and Durban. Van Wyk said that she and Khumalo would continue with their endeavours to make sure that every African child, irrespective of colour or creed had the opportunity to be exposed to quality study material and resources. “Both Saray and I are where we are today because somebody invested in our education and we are both passionate in making sure that the kids of the future are not treated as second-class citizens to the rest of the world,” she said. Chief executive of Client Engagement Solutions at Momentum Multiply Zureida Ebrahim said: “I’m really grateful as an individual and a representative of Momentum Multiply that we get to be a part of it for Saray to reach another high and women to break another barrier,” she said. By the end of eight hours, a total of 136 cyclists participated and 34 bikes were sponsored to raise R704 790 for iSchoolAfrica. The funds raised will go towards the delivery of digital libraries in rural and township schools. Each library will consist of a mobile iPad lab supported by curriculum-based apps, numeracy and literacy software, access to a full library, teacher-training modules, dedicated programme facilitators and mentors. Khumalo said that the biggest hurdle was getting people and companies to contribute financially. “We know that businesses and individuals are struggling, especially with the lockdown, so it was hard to convince people to spare some change …” She was confident the initiative would help a new generation to become digitally literate. The Star