Johannesburg: Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has been approached to investigate allegations of corruption and improper conduct at the Johannesburg Property Company. The municipal entity has been dogged by in-fighting after the board suspended the entity's chief executive, Helen Botes. The board is also under investigation after it has been accused of meddling in management issues and using its powers to make appointments in management which were favourable to the board. In a letter seen by The Star, the complainants accuse the board of overreaching it's powers, irregular practice, interference in human resource processes and irregular political engagement. In the complaint, signed, "For the sake of the City", eight people complained that the board had placed a restriction order on one of the managers, Sipho Mhlongo. "Please investigate how the board can issue a lawyers letter restricting managers from entering the company premises," the complaint read. In another turn, flat owners at the Tygerberg Flats in Berea, Joburg, are calling for the immediate removal of the building’s former administrator who they accuse of swindling their money. Owners and occupants of Tygerberg have approached the South Gauteng High Court on an urgent basis to interdict the building’s former administrator Jan van den Bos for his immediate removal after they alleged that he still indirectly collected money and benefits from the building. One Flat owner, Kelebogile Moreki told Independent media Van den Bos was protected because he was close to the board of the JPC. Van den Bos was the building administrator from 2011 to 2018. “We need to remove him from the building completely; including all his contract services that he brought in, because all the people who installed the (electricity) meters are linked to him and people are unable to pay. “We also realised that the account that we pay into for levies is his personal account,” one resident said. In a letter from property owners’ lawyer Zuko Madikane to his attorney Tony Ellis, on October 5, occupants requested Van den Bos withdraw all activities that he was currently involved in the property as he had no authority.  | The Star