By Michael Rudolph The fact that the World Food Programme is the recipient of this year’s Nobel Peace Prize not only celebrates the work it does feeding hundreds of millions of hungry people globally, but draws attention to the plight of the starving. The University of Johannesburg’s Centre for Social Change estimates as much as 34% of our population went to bed hungry during South Africa’s lockdown. Professor Kate Alexander, the author of the research, said the deputy director of the Department of Social Development told Parliament that roughly 50% of the population was food insecure. This, together with the fact that the Department of Agriculture recently announced a R939 million cut in its budget, leaves the most vulnerable facing an uncertain future. Emergency food parcels, school feeding schemes and all the hard work done by corporates and NGOs are essential to keep our nation fed, but one of the key interventions and a long-term solution to the hunger and malnutrition faced by millions of South Africans is to develop a culture of sustainable food gardens in various sites such as schools, clinics, community sites, parks and households. Food security is a complex challenge needing scalable environmental, social and governance (ESG) solutions that take into account the water, energy food nexus, effective planting and growing methods, financial investment, willing community involvement and appropriate training and mentorship. Only a well-balanced public-private approach that includes the government at all levels, NGOs, civil society and communities will benefit hungry and malnourished people with limited access to resources, and because we’ve seen substantial cuts to the agriculture budget, now more than ever partnerships are needed. Improving food availability can be achieved through capacitating small-scale farmers and gardeners and influencing city and settlement design to give people greater access to arable land, equipment and infrastructural resources, and assist with setting up small food enterprises. What does it take to start a sustainable food garden? First, as the African proverb says, it takes a village, and in this case, community gardening is the best way. It allows a group of people to plant a range of food in larger public spaces. This approach provides learning opportunities for all involved about food gardening, food preparation, and more, while offering economies of scale when it comes to the contribution of time, fertilising, water usage and the sharing of tools. All who participate get access to a good mix of seasonal fruit and vegetables by trading their contribution for food. Others can buy fresh produce at a better price than a retail outlet, with the proceeds being reinvested into the garden. This works only if the community plan and manage the scheme effectively and efficiently. In communities where unemployment is rife, community gardening not only produces food, but also gives purpose and transforms problems into possibilities. South Africa needs to craft solutions for its local circumstance which is why we strongly advocate for ESG-focused community initiatives. And with the support and participation of multisector partners, we could be closer to solving our food security crisis. Michael Rudolph is from Keep the Wolf from the Door and director of Siyakhana food gardens. The Star