Johannesburg - A farm owner who attempted to evict a 73-year-old pensioner, despite her protection by legislation on grounds that she had stayed and worked at the farm for more than 10 years, has failed in court. Katie Moyeni resided and worked at Mooihoek Farm in Worcester, Western Cape, since 1997. Together with her children, she joined her late husband, Brown, who started working at the farm in 1994. Despite her continued stay at the farm being protected under the Extension of Security of Tenure Act of 1997 (ESTA), farm owner Johannes de Vries served her with an attorney’s letter saying she should leave. The letter, sent to Moyeni barely six months after her husband died in 2014, said she was being asked to vacate the house based on the same ESTA intended to protect vulnerable farmworkers. ESTA stipulates that people have right of residence on land they have occupied as workers for 10 years, provided they are 60 or can no longer work due to ill health, injury or disability. De Vries relied on a clause in ESTA stating that one can be kicked out on grounds of a serious breach. He alleged that Moyeni had breached farm rules by keeping a dog without permission, having lodgers in the farmhouse, using vulgar language and abusing alcohol. She denied all these allegations and refused to leave. These exchanges between Moyeni and De Vries played out in at least three different courts. De Vries tasted victory at the Worcester Magistrate’s Court and the Land Claims Court (LCC). The Magistrate’s Court ruled that Moyeni should be evicted because she never worked at the farm, only her late husband did. The LCC confirmed that ruling. But she dragged the matter to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) and she had the last laugh. “The magistrate erred in finding that there was never an employment agreement between the appellant and the (De Vries Family) Trust, as well as with the first respondent (De Vries),” said Judge of Appeal Connie Mocumie, in her judgment delivered yesterday. “In the replying affidavit, there was an admission on behalf of the trust, albeit with qualification, that the appellant had been employed on the farm. “Significantly, the trust admitted that the appellant was a protected occupier in terms of section 8(4) (of ESTA), but it insisted that she had committed breaches in terms of section 10(1)(c).” Judge Mocumie said it must be noted that Moyeni “strenuously denied that she had committed any breaches of ESTA and insisted that she was a model occupier”. “Her allegations in this regard cannot be rejected merely on the papers filed of record. The respondents did not provide any compelling and uncontroverted evidence that might have entitled them to rely on the provisions of … ESTA. “There was therefore no basis on which the order the magistrate granted could be justified or for the confirmation thereof by the LCC.” Sight should not be lost that ESTA was intended to protect people with insecure tenure of land, she said. “In my view, the appellant falls squarely within this category of people – particularly in the light of her being a woman.” The Star