Johannesburg - Limpopo courts are battling a surprising divorce backlog, to an extent that a plan has been devised to fast-track annulments of more than 11 000 failed marriages in the province. Jakkie Wessels, provincial president for regional courts, issued a memo to lawyers and all stakeholders announcing a 100 Days Divorce Backlog Project. “The Limpopo regional court civil seats together with the representatives of the major stakeholders had agreed to have a 100 Days Divorce Backlog Project ending on December 14, 2020, due to the huge volume of outstanding divorce cases on the court rolls,” Wessels said in the memo seen by The Star. The data Wessels released said there were a total of 11 788 outstanding cases in the Limpopo divorce courts by late September, 104 of which were finalised during the month. With a whopping 4 198 cases, Polokwane had the highest number of outstanding divorce cases. The second highest unfinalised cases were in Tzaneen, with 2 149. In Lebowakgomo, a total of 887 failed marriages waited to be annulled and the figure was 971 in Modimolle. The figure was 687 in Giyani, 440 in Sibasa, 447 in Louis Trichardt, 421 in Sekhukhune, 409 in Mahwereleng, 307 in Burgersfort, 357 in Lephalale and 284 in Phalaborwa. It appeared Limpopo was not the only province with a heavy load of divorce applications. The South Gauteng High Court heard 33 unopposed divorces last Friday. The Limpopo 100-days project was intended to fast track opposed and unopposed divorces. Opposed divorce applications that could possibly require mediation would also be attended to with speed. Wessels called on lawyers to play their part to ensure matters in Limpopo were finalised. Lawyers should “consider virtual hearings, especially if it will assist their clients who might not be in the province or live near the civil seat to fast track the hearing,” she advised. There has been a 20% increase in divorce applications in South Africa since level 4, law firm DIY Legal’s analysis of available data indicated. “During lockdown level 5, there was an increase in interest, but it wasn’t possible to progress divorces. So the majority waited until they weren’t locked down to proceed with their divorce. “As far as international trends go, South Africa seems to be in line with the curve,” DIY said. It said the main cause of separations was that couples under lockdown realised that they did not actually love each other. Statistics SA revealed in data published last year that four out of 10 marriages in the country ended in divorce. It studied 2017 to 2018 data, when there were 25 390 divorces. The number of civil marriages registered in 2017 indicated South Africans still believed in marriage. A total of 135 458 civil unions were entered into that year, down from 186 522 in 2008. The Black Lawyers Association supported the 100-days initiative, said provincial secretary Rabbi Mashabela. It urged though that divorce laws should be followed to the latter. “While this project may enhance efficiency and speed up the finalisation of matters, we want to implore the Regional Court President to ensure that the parties in divorce proceedings do not feel coerced to participate in the mediation, nor to sign settlement agreements they do not understand,” Mashabela said. The Star