Durban - THE KwaZulu-Natal Department of Social Development has closed its office at KwaDambuza in Pietermaritzburg after a series of hijackings in which state vehicles were targeted. The department said there was a growing trend of state vehicles being targeted by crime syndicates in the uMgungundlovu District municipality and this had hampered service delivery. The department said that on Monday, a social worker was accosted by armed hijackers. The hijackers shot at him before fleeing in the state vehicle that he was driving. KZN Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza said the social worker was injured on his arm. She said that on Tuesday, another social worker was hijacked on Edendale Road while on the way to work in uMkhanyakude district. “We have been losing a lot of state vehicles, with our employees assaulted and even being shot at. The department’s employees are being victimised by crime across the province.” According to the department’s report, 53 state-owned vehicles are yet to be recovered after being hijacked between 2017 and 2020. About 21 vehicles were recovered in the same period. The department said of those recovered, most had been damaged, involved in accidents or had been stripped for parts. “Our employees are being targeted when responding to the plight of the people. We are lucky that we have not lost lives in these incidents. “These brutal hijackings of departmental vehicles demoralises our employees,” she said, adding that although cases of hijackings were often opened with the police, there was little joy in solving the crimes. “The syndicate hijacking state vehicles sets us back in terms of ensuring that services reach people on time. It is imperative to see our communities also playing their role in exposing these criminals. The hijackers are people who are known in our communities, hence we strongly believe that community members should share information with the law enforcement agencies so that these criminals can be brought to book,” she said. Khoza said she would be meeting her counterpart, Bheki Ntuli, MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, and police management to get updates on the cases that were reported. The Mercury