Johannesburg - While many people may not be familiar with Lethabo “Lejoy” Mathatho in the role she will be taking on Tuesday evening, she is delving into something that is right up her alley. The flamboyant star has several titles under her belt including that of MC, radio personality, TV and radio producer as well as motivational speaker. From tonight, viewers will be seeing Mathatho taking on a sensitive issue that affects many South African families as the host of Mzansi Magic’s latest reality series, Ingane Yam. The series will narrate the stories of parents who, after years of procrastination, introduce their children from the past to their spouses and families to help the children get a sense of belonging. The 34-year-old said what attracted her to the show was that it spoke to her. “I have never had a relationship with my father’s side of the family and my relationship with my father was not so great. The show is about giving children a sense of belonging and identity to both sides of their parents. That is important.” “At my age, trust me, I had my share of hidden secrets from a partner. What I have learnt is that when you disclose, you need to take full responsibility for the fact that your truth is breaking trust. This puts one at a point to work 20 times more to win the trust back if they want to save and rebuild the relationship.” Nomsa Philiso, director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net said the show mirrored the real struggles that children were faced with as they navigated their daily lives. “The reality show will take viewers on a journey of self-exploration as it delves into the everyday life of ordinary characters and their stories. It zooms in on the big question – why parents hide children from their past and how their families react to the big reveal of the child, who until this point has been an outsider,” said Philiso. Mathatho said viewers should tune into the show to see and learn how secrets can reveal more to any story. “I worked with Behind the Best, the production company behind the project. I loved every minute of it. It’s always encouraging to see young people being driven and aiming to achieve nothing but the best. The team really contributed their soul to this season.” Ingane Yam has its premiere on Mzansi Magic tonight at 8. The Star